Content: Unfettered campaign Act 1 (#6416)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/hai/unfettered missions.txt

mission "Unfettered: Prove Your Strength"
	name `Defeat the captain`
	description `A young Unfettered captain has provoked you in a duel, disable his ship.`
	source "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered Jump Drive 2: offered"
		has "Unfettered: Bring Medical Supplies: done"
		has "armament deterrence" > 5
	on offer
		conversation
			`You start wandering in the spaceport, and notice that everything around here is so... simple, efficient, ordered. There seems to be more warriors here than on the other Unfettered planets, or at least they are less affrayed to wonder around with their weapon, they seem ready for action at any time, you are happy not to be their enemy, or at least, for now.	As you continue walking you notice someone speaking to a crowd of people. They seem very familiar with each others, and it seems they have noticed you too, the one who was adressing the others approaches you.`

> 			`	"This is the monkey you speak so highly off? The one who fears not to come into our space, to fight our ships?" He asks the others, apparently mocking you. This could get you into trouble.`

Author: I added that little piece in to insist on the fact that if you go with it you're going to get into a fight
but I guess it's obvious enough in the next conversations and you can still run away then

> 			`	"This is the monkey you speak so highly off? The one who fears not to come into our space, to fight our ships?" He asks the others, apparently mocking you. This could get you into trouble.`

Reviewer: Yea, it just seemed more appropriate as the end of the previous paragraph of description than tacked on after the speech.

			choice
				`	"I fear nothing. Do you?"`
					goto provoke
				`	(Say nothing.)`
				`	(Run away.)`
					decline
			`	"See? The monkey dares not speak! He would not stand a chance in combat, our modest ship would bring him straight out of the sky, but we should not even try or we could hurt it. But my friends, there is no shame for him to have... With a ship looking like that one I would be hesitant to fight too!"	He seems very full of himself, maybe you should teach him a lesson.`
			choice

> 				`	"How dare you call the <ship>?"`

Author: what do you mean?

> 				`	"How dare you call the <ship>?"`

Reviewer: In regards to what the ship is being called and that actually being mentioned.

Or is this supposed to be like "calling out"? Still seems like that can be clarified.

> 				`	"How dare you call the <ship>?"`

Author: I added some reaction to it, he provokes you even more x)

				`	"I have no need to prove myself to a rodent."`
				`	(Go, he is not worth it.)`
					decline
			
			label provoke

> 			`	"So the monkey can speak, let us see if it can fight as well!"	He seems very full of himself, time for his lesson. Or perhaps you are the one who needs to learn humility... After a cheering from his crowd, he speaks to you directly this time. "You and me, in battle, leave your fleet parked. Meet me in the sky when you are ready, except if you lack the courage to fight me. This is not to be a fight to the death, monkey."`

Author: I don't know much about ES style norms, but yes it is indeed directed to the player, because the captain would not say something like that.
Maybe I should add something like 'you think to yourself'
Or if this doesn't fit the norms make it be a dialog if you fail the mission that you are the one in need of humility?

> 			`	"So the monkey can speak, let us see if it can fight as well!"	He seems very full of himself, time for his lesson. Or perhaps you are the one who needs to learn humility... After a cheering from his crowd, he speaks to you directly this time. "You and me, in battle, leave your fleet parked. Meet me in the sky when you are ready, except if you lack the courage to fight me. This is not to be a fight to the death, monkey."`

Reviewer: The fail dialogue would probably be more appropriate for the direct message, but 'think to yourself' is good enough way to leave it in this section as well.

> 			`	"So the monkey can speak, let us see if it can fight as well!"	He seems very full of himself, time for his lesson. Or perhaps you are the one who needs to learn humility... After a cheering from his crowd, he speaks to you directly this time. "You and me, in battle, leave your fleet parked. Meet me in the sky when you are ready, except if you lack the courage to fight me. This is not to be a fight to the death, monkey."`

Author: yeah there is no chance he defeats you actually because the mission only trigger if you have enough strength to beat him
Even if he does disable you I have no way to check for that, all that can be known is if you destroy him

			choice
				`	(Go back to the ship.)`
					goto ship
				`	"If this world is so wild, why put the jump drives here in the first place?"`
			`	"The Unfettered are not the ones who placed those jump drives here..."`
			
			label ship
			`	You go back to your ship with the Hai, and give the orders to collect and install the jump drives.`
			`	A bit later the Hai comes to speak to you on the bridge. "It took us too long to install the jump drives, we seem to have attracted attention. I guess that if some of the pirates got away from the vault, they have contacted some friends..." As you look outside you see multiple ships getting ready to launch far away. You launch as soon as you can, rushing trough the correct procedures.`
				launch
	
	on accept
		"outfit" "Jump Drive" 4
	npc evade
		government "Pirate"
		personality disables plunders vindictive
		system "Almaaz"
		fleet "Large Northern Pirates"
		fleet "Small Northern Pirates" 2

mission "Unfettered: Attracted Attention"
	invisible
	source "Freedom"
	landing
	destination "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Prove your strength 2: active"
	on offer
		require "Jump Drive" 1
	on enter "Almaaz"

> 		dialog `The Unfettered comes to the bridge to warn you, "There are even more pirates than anticipated. I told you not to come here with a jump drive!"`

Author: indeed that is exactly what happens! glad you like it

			`	"It is pretty much garanteed there will be one such ship at all times around their home system, Ya-Hai, the center of their trade. For obvious reasons we cannot scan that ship ourselves, and we prefer that the Hai be ignorant of our interest in that design anyway. Bring us the full scanner logs and you will be well rewarded."`
			choice
				`	"Seems easy, I will do it."`
					goto agree
				`	"Why the sudden interest for that ship?"`
					goto design
				`	"You could just ask the Hai that come to you from their space about it."`
				`	"I do not want to get in trouble with the Hai."`
					decline
			`	"That is what we will be forced to do if you refuse, but we would prefer this to be kept a secret. Also most of the Hai who join us are not warriors, but rather artists, and others who want to explore diverse ways of seeing the world, or simply disagree with the ways of the Hai government. So do you agree to do this for us?"`
			choice
				`	"It seems easy enough, I will do it."`
					goto agree
				`	"How do I scan it?"`
					goto scan
				`	"I do not want to get in trouble with the Hai."`
					decline
			
			label design

> 			`	"We would like to know how they avoided vulnerabilities in the hull of a ship of such size. Extra space on a ship cannot only be used for cargo... I will tell you more about it later, once you bring us the scans. That is if you are willing of course?"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"We would like to know how they avoided vulnerabilities in the hull of a ship of such size. Extra space on a ship cannot only be used for cargo... I will tell you more about it later, once you bring us the scans. That is, if you are willing of course?"`
```

			choice
				`	"Sure, will do."`
					goto agree
				`	"How do I scan it?"`
				`	"That is too mysterious for me, I am not interested."`
					decline
			label scan
			`	"The informations provided by an outfit scanner should be sufficient, if you do not have one you can install one in Wah Ki, on the way there. You may want to get multiple scanners, so you can scan the ship from a longer range, and faster."`
			choice
				`	"Sure, will do."`
					goto agree
				`	"I am not interested in scanning ships for you."`
					decline
			
			label agree

> 			`	You were on your way to your ship but she catches up to you, running, to tell you, "One... last... thing, captain!" You let her catch her breath, "We have noticed one Geocoris just entered <waypoint> as expected, but seems to have some special modifications, please scan that one specifically, we have marked it's signature for you to recognize it."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	On the way back to your ship, Taer-Fi runs up to you, "One... last... thing, captain!" You let her catch her breath, "We have noticed one Geocoris just entered <waypoint> as expected, but seems to have some special modifications. Please scan that one specifically, we have marked it's signature for you to recognize it."`
```

			choice
				`	"Seems good to me, I will do it."`
					accept
				`	"What kind of ship are we talking about?"`
				`	"Wait you mean they could shoot me? No way, I am out!"`
					decline
			`	She seems anxious to tell you. "It is a human ship, and quite a big one. We do not know its designation in human space but it carries a few small ships, and uses alien technologies. You do not need to be able to destroy it, just scan it and then come back here."`
			choice
				`	"I am not worried about any one ship, I will do it."`
					accept
				`	"That seems too dangerous to me."`
					decline
	
	on enter "Hi Yahr"
		dialog `You see the ship as you enter the system, it is a navy Auxiliary. Whatever happens, the Unfettered asked you not to destroy it and only scan it, at least for now.`
	
	npc save "scan outfits"
		government "Alpha"
		personality target staying timid entering
		system "Hi Yahr"
		ship "Auxiliary (Alpha)" "Settler"
		
		conversation
			`You have finished scanning the Auxiliary. There can be no doubt, this is a ship populated by Alphas. As you prepare yourself to exit the system and bring the logs back, you receive a message from the local Unfettered authorities.`

> 			`	"We demand that you land right away. If you go to any other system that ship may pursue you and we do not want a dispute between our suppliers of jump drives, this is probably just a misunderstanding. If you land we can garantee your safety here, we have temporarily removed permission to land from that ship, given it fired on you without any apparent provokation."`

Author: you're completely right

	landing
	destination "Firelode"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Solifuge 2: Auxiliary Design: done"
	on fail
		dialog `You have failed an essential Unfettered mission. You may want to reload.`
	on complete
		log `Scanned an Auxiliary for the Unfettered, I wonder what it was doing so far from Republic space, and with alien technology. The fact that Alphas were on it probably has something to do with that.`
		payment 300000
		conversation
			`You send your logs as you land and receive a very generous payment of <payment>.`
			`	Moments later you are on the bridge, thinking about how to present the fact that this was an Alpha ship to the elders when you hear a voice from the coms on your ship. "Oh you are back, good!" You are a bit surprised of the intervention but quickly recognize the voice of Taer Fi. She apparently found a way to directly establish communication. "Can I speak to you about your scans? I really am intrigued as to how that auxiliary could work."`
			choice
				`	"I will not discuss those things with you."`
					decline
				`	"Sorry but I am no engineer, I have no idea about how those Carriers work."`
				`	"Sure, what is it you want to know about them?"`

> 			`	"I already have access to the specs of the ship, my questions are mostly related to how well they fare in battle. We have never tried ships carrying fighters before because of some ethical implications but to be honest it was mostly due to the technical difficulties of building a ship large enough to contain multiple small ones. I want to know how do they fare, how are they countered." She is apparently very exited to learn more about them.`

Author: from the Hai side? you mean Wanderer side ? 
you're right I'll just make this blocked by the first wanderer defend mission as is the case for Alphas 2

	on visit
		dialog `You have landed but without the Alpha Auxiliary and its cargo of Jump Drives. Go and find for traces of fuel from it, in systems neighbouring Hi Yahr. Do not forget to land on the Alpha base to recover any information it may have!`
	to complete
		has "Unfettered: Alphas 3: Bring The Spoils: offered"
	on complete
		log `Stole an Alpha auxiliary with its cargo of jump drives, and also found Koraths on board. They tried to trap me, but I got the upper hand. I wonder if the Unfettered were in on this, considering it is trough them I learned about the fuel leak. Hopefully not...`
		outfit "Jump Drive" -10
		payment 10000000
		"salary: Unfettered" = 1000
		conversation
			`The Unfettered warlord that annoyed you earlier seems surprised to see you same for the rest of the council, but they address you they do so with respect. "You have proven yourself. Now we have almost enough jump drives for the next phase..." You look at them intensively, and after a few seconds they realise, "Oh right, your payment! Here it is : <payment>!"`
			choice
				`	"I have found Korath prisoners on the Alpha ship."`

> 			`They talk about it and then an Unfettered elder speak up, "Perfect, hand them over to us, we will see to it they have all the comfort they need, hopefully in exchange for some technology." They discuss something and then the warlord from earlier speaks, seemingly with a heavy burden. "Now that you officially work for us, you will have a salary of 1000. We will not make you wear our colours yet because it could cause problems with the Hai. We do not want you to get shot on sight."`

Author: I was confused as hell about colors or colours, but my auto corrector prefered colours so I just believed him xD

	on offer
		log "people" "Hi Ye" `An Unfettered warlord that likes to be direct and to call humans monkey apparently. He has some great managing capabilities though.`
		conversation
			`You receive a message from the Unfettered warlord, who finally gives you his name : "Hi Ye", "Thanks to you the Shipyard on Darkcloak is finally capable of producing shield beetles in great quantities. However in order to buy them you will require a license. Continue helping me and you will have it in no time! In the mean time you can enjoy the additional outfits we can produce there."`
				decline

mission "Unfettered: Close Quarter"
	name `Close Quarter Fighting`
	description `Hi Ye wants you to bring 10 less deadly weapons for him to train with the other Unfettered without any danger, on <destination>.`
	source "Warfeed"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Solifuge 9: Shield Beetles Mass Production: done"
	on offer
		conversation
			`You can see movement in the spaceport, people seem to he heading to one place in particular and you can hear some shouting coming from that direction. Do you want to go take a look?`
			choice
				`	(Of course.)`
				`	(Not now.)`
					defer

> 			`	You see where all the Unfettered were going. They are all here fighting in a huge organized field. The place appears to be a gigantic fighting training, in the form of circles of various sizes and colors that never touch. You do not understand all that is going on, but it seems like the bigger the circle, the more opponents you have to fight. Hi Ye is standing in the bigger one of them.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	You see where all the Unfettered were going. They are all here fighting in a huge organized field. The whole thing seems to be some sort of mass training exercising in hand to hand combat, in the form of circles of various sizes and colors that never touch. You do not understand all that is going on, but it seems like the bigger the circle, the more opponents you have to fight. Hi Ye is standing in the bigger one of them.`
```

			choice
				`	(Accept.)`
				`	(Decline.)`
					goto nope
			`	One of them comes towards you. "I challenge you, <last>! Tales of your strength have been said, I want to test it out first-hand. If I win, I demand you tell me those stories yourself." He is equipped with what looks to be a twin pistol version of the standard Hai rifles.`
			choice
				`	"I am sure those tales are only half as good as they should be!"`
				`	"Very well, but if I win, I want your weapon."`
					goto weapon
			`	"I see the tales about your wisdom were exaggerated at least." Now it is time for the challenge to begin.`
			
			label weapon
			`	He looks at his weapons, thinking. Then he nods and hands you one of the pistols. "I have set it on training. We would not want any accidents to happen," he adds. Then he moves away to the edge of the blue circle. "Because this is your first time, I will let you choose your position, and have the initiative. The rules are simple: once you shout the fight begins." You understand why you heard so much shouting earlier.`
			choice
				`	(SHOUT!)`
					goto start
				`	(Smartly get into position and get ready.)`

> 			`	You carefully observe your surroundings and decide to head towards one of the smaller circles, not too close yet not too far from him, and consider your covers. Everything is simulated to resemble an urban training, probably because the ancestors of the Unfettered had to protect their cities from the Korath. You feel the adrenaline of the coming battle surging into your veins.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	You carefully observe your surroundings and decide to head towards one of the smaller circles, not too close yet not too far from him, and consider your covers. Everything is simulated to resemble an urban environment, probably because the ancestors of the Unfettered had to protect their cities from the Korath. You feel the adrenaline of the coming battle surging into your veins.`
```

			
			label start

> 			`	You shout and try to shoot him... Except you completely miss him, you were not expecting so much recoil from such a small pistol. It also seems to have a very low accuracy. Obviously, your opponant knew this, and he is already coming rushing your way.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	You shout and try to shoot him... Except you completely miss him; you were not expecting so much recoil from such a small pistol. It also seems to have a very low accuracy. Obviously, your opponent knew this, and he is already rushing your way.`
```

			choice
				`	(Stay here and get ready for your next shot.)`
					goto ready
				`	(Go to the cover on the right.)`

> 			`	You try to head for the cover but he is too fast, and you receive a shot on your leg, making you fall. It hurts a lot but nothing seems to be broken, and soon after you cannot feel anything in your leg at all. You opponent comes to you and helps you to get up. "Pain is a good teacher, sometimes," he says. Then he goes back to fight with his friends, seemingly in teams.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	You try to head for the cover but he is too fast, and you receive a shot on your leg, making you fall. It hurts, but nothing seems to be broken, and soon after you cannot feel anything in your leg at all. You opponent comes to you and helps you to get up. "Pain is a good teacher, sometimes," he says. Then he goes back to fight with his friends, seemingly in teams.`
```

				goto heyi
			
			label ready

> 			`	You try to shoot him but he is too fast and you too inexperienced. By moving still you made an easy target for him though, you fall as you receive a shot to your shoulder. It hurts a lot but nothing seems to be broken, and soon after you cannot feel anything in your leg at all. You opponent comes to you and helps you to get up. "Pain is a good teacher, sometimes," he says. Then he goes back to fight with his friends, seemingly in teams.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	You try to shoot him but he is too fast and you too inexperienced. By moving you have made yourself an easy target for him, though; you fall as you receive a shot to your shoulder. It hurts, but nothing seems to be broken, and soon after you cannot feel anything in your arm at all. You opponent comes to you and helps you to get up. "Pain is a good teacher, sometimes," he says. Then he goes back to fight with his friends, seemingly in teams.`
```

			
			label heyi

> 			`	It seems like your fight has attracted the attention of many of the Unfettered, including He Yi. He comes to speak to you, "That was a nice fight, especially considering this most be your first!"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	It seems like your fight has attracted the attention of many of the Unfettered, including He Yi. He comes to speak to you, "That was a nice fight, especially considering this must be your first!"`
```

			choice
				`	"Can I help you with something?"`
					goto speak
				`	"Well, I lost."`
					goto lost
				`	"It was quite some fun, do you do this often?"`

> 			`	"Fun that it is! Some of us decide to do it yes, we most be ready to repel a ground assault."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"Fun that it is! Some of us decide to do it yes, we must be ready to repel a ground assault."`
```

				goto speak
			
			label lost

> 			`	"Were you expecting to win the fight? Those of us who choose to fight are well trained to do so, even if we do not overlook our studies whilst doing so. You may not have won the fight, but you have won something else."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"Were you expecting to win the fight? Those of us who choose to fight are well trained to do so, even if we do not overlook other studies whilst doing so. You may not have won the fight, but you have won something else."`
```

			choice
				`	"And what is that?"`
				`	"Can I help you with anything?"`
					goto speak

> 			`	"Experience? Fun? There is always something to be gained when there is not the risk of losing your life."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"Experience? Fun? There is always something to be gained, even when there is not the risk of losing your life."`
```

				goto speak
			
			label challenge
			`	You try to get a challenge with him, but you are not experienced enough for them to allow it. You did attract his attention however and he comes to speak to you.`
				goto speak
			label nope
			`	You look at them battling for so long you do not see the time pass, then you realize you are being watched. It is He Yi, he looks satisfied of your interest in this fight. "You should try it someday," he says.`
			
			label speak

> 			`	"As you have noticed, we do this training quite often. Because our rifles are not deadly on the first shots, we almost never get anyone killed. But it still happens too often, especially with some of the older ones who are more fragile... Or with the young ones who are too... enthusiast. Do you happen to know any weapons that would not have such weakness?"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"As you have noticed, we do this training quite often. Because our rifles are not deadly on the first shots, we almost never have anyone get killed. But it still happens too often, especially with some of the older ones who are more fragile... Or with the young ones who are too, enthusiastic. Do you happen to know any weapons that would not have such weakness?"`
```

mission "Bring Coalition Weapons"
	invisible
	source "Warfeed"
	landing
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Close Quarter: offered"
	on offer
		require "Enforcer Riot Staff" 10
		dialog `Do you want to sell 10 Enforcer Riot Staffs to the Unfettered? He Yi says they can give you <payment> for it.`
	on accept
		payment 2000000
		outfit "Enforcer Riot Staff" -10
		dialog `The Unfettered thank you for bringing these 10 staffs to them. They give you <payment>.`

mission "Bring Void Rifle"
	invisible
	source "Warfeed"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Close Quarter: offered"
	on offer
		require "Void Rifle" 1
		conversation
			`He Yi seems very, very interested in this weapon. "Where did you find it? Can you bring us more? We would gladly make you rich if you do, this is the perfect weapon for training."`
			choice
				`	"Sorry, this is one of a kind."`
			`	"Oh, if you want I can cancel the exchange then, if it is precious to your eyes."`
			choice
				`	"<payment> is much more precious, thank you."`
				`	"Yes I have changed my mind, cancel the exchange."`
					decline
			`	"This will be my personal weapon, I will take good care of it worry not!"`
				accept
	on accept
		payment 10000000

> 		outfit "Void Rifle" -1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		outfit "Void Rifle" -1
```

I really like this grouping of alternative completions here. Especially the Void Rifle option.

But with both the Pug and the Coalition being out of the way to obtain weapons from, I feel like there should be some better prompts/hints as to where to get them from. Maybe even hidden behind a timer of say, 120 days-ish, if this hasn't been progressed yet?

Perhaps some mention of tales from over zealous Unfettered crews who went TOO far north, and encountered some strange other alien ships. Something something ~"even those few who succeeded in boarding the strange ships made no progress capturing them; they were repelled by weapons which disoriented and confused the Hai they were used again."

Author: I think I will do a hint that triggers after this if you have completed the main plot, mentioning you heard tales of the pugs using these kind of weapons
this mission is not required to do the next one though, it will only come into play later so if the player waits a bit it's no big deal

				`	"Not yet, I will come back when I am."`
					goto later
				`	"I was born ready."`
			`	"And may you die ready, as well." Hi-Ye comes closer and takes you aside to speak to you, privately. "I have managed to buy myself a ship with the money from our last business opportunity. It is much stronger than the old one! And as a warlord, he has a strong fleet as well. You may want to consider this seriously. Do not forget you can call the fight off, to continue it later once you are ready, by giving us a small fee."`
			choice
				`	"You do not scare me."`
					accept
				`	"After thinking a bit... Maybe I should not take such risks, I will not participate in your war."`
					decline
			`	"That is good! Let us fight, on the same terms of honour as before. Take off when you will be ready, we will be waiting for you."`
			label later
			`	"Be sure to come back soon, war cannot wait forever."`
				defer
	
	npc save disable
		government "Hai (Unfettered Challenge)"
		ship "Shield Beetle (Pulse)" "Intrepid II"
		ship "Shield Beetle" "The Strategist"
		conversation
			action
				"reputation: Hai (Unfettered)" = "reputation: Hai (Unfettered)" + 100
				event "shield beetles accessible"

> 			`"You sure know how to fight, but sheer firepower may not be enough, you should train more before we are ready to start the war. Also we would require more jump drives that what we currently have, because our Alpha supplies have been disrupted by your actions."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`"You sure know how to fight, but sheer firepower may not be enough, you should still train more before we are ready to start the war. Also we will require more jump drives than what we currently have, because our Alpha supplies have been disrupted by your actions."`
```

	
	on complete
		log `Officialy joined the Unfettered Militia. It should be the last time I have to prove my worth to them. At the very least I may now buy all of their ships with this license.`
		"salary: Unfettered" = 5000
		set "license: Unfettered Militia"
		event "joined the unfettered"

> 		dialog `"We will notify you once you may be of help to the war effort. In the mean time, we have increased your salary to 5000 so you can muster an even bigger fleet. Also from now on you will officially have the permission, nay, the obligation to proudly wear our colours. We have signaled this change of colors to the Hai meaning they will not change their behaviour with you, recognizing your signature. You have also deserved the right to have this." He hands you a small trophy. "It is a proof of our trust towards you and means you will be able to buy all of our ships."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		dialog `"We will notify you once you may be of help to the war effort. In the mean time, we have increased your salary to 5000 so you can muster an even larger fleet. Also from now on you will officially have the permission, nay, the obligation to proudly wear our colors. We have signaled this change of colors to the Hai meaning they will not change their behavior with you, recognizing your signature. You have also deserved the right to have this." He hands you a small trophy. "It is a proof of our trust towards you and means you will be able to buy all of our ships."`
```

			choice
				`	"Will the Hai will let me land on their home world?"`
			`	"Why would you need a permission? Discretely land in an isolated region, whilst nobody is looking. If they detect you, just pretend you have a navigation issue."`	
			choice
				`	"I have a better idea: I will tell them I come to collect tribute."`
				`	"This seems like it could easily go wrong, I am not interested."`
					decline
			`	He seems genuinely impressed, even more than he should be. These Unfettered are probably too used to being able to take and do what they want. "That is a brilliant idea! Well what are you waiting for? Go on then."`
				accept
	
	on fail
		dialog `You have failed an essential Unfettered mission. You may want to reload.`
	on complete
		log `Gathered intel on a Hai shipyard for the Unfettered, hopefully I will be able to buy Shield Beetles from them soon.`
		payment 250000
		conversation
			`The warlord from earlier hands you <payment>.`
			choice	
				`	"Does this mean I can buy Shield Beetles now?"`
				`	"What about my pay for the tribute?"`
					goto tribute

> 			`	He seems amused. "For that you would have to do a bit more than bringing some intel, we still do not have more capacity to build ships. But that will come soon, I first have to do some managing."`

Reviewer: This would be a good spot to give the upgraded SB with 36400 shields under my idea above.

Author: I see what you mean but you haven't done enough to impress the warlord yet, this was just a test of your loyalty to his cause not your overall combat capacities

				accept
	
	on visit
		dialog `You look for the young Hai, but realize that he took a ride on one of your escorts! Better depart and wait for your escorts to arrive in this star system.`
	on complete
		payment 100000
		dialog
			`You need not have worried about the reception the Unfettered youth would receive here on Hai-home. Scarcely minutes after you hesitantly contact the Hai government, a happy crowd has gathered around your ship. When he steps out of the hatchway, he looks stunned at being welcomed so warmly. One of the Hai governors thanks you for transporting him, and pays you <payment>.`
		"reputation: Hai" += 10
		"reputation: Hai (Wormhole Access)" += 10
		"reputation: Hai Merchant" += 10
		"reputation: Hai Merchant (Human)" += 10
		"reputation: Hai Merchant (Sympathizers)" += 10

phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	word
		`You have failed an essential Unfettered mission. You may want to reload.`

mission "Unfettered: Bring Hai"
	name `Bring True Hai back`
	description `Bring <bunks> Hai from <stopovers> to <origin>.`
	source "Firelode"
	stopover "Snowfeather"
	passengers 10

> 	blocked "You will need room for 10 passengers in order to take the next Unfettered mission."

Author: Yeah you're right
I could even use <passengers>, I think

	to offer
		has "Unfettered Jump Drive 1: offered"
		has "reputation: Hai" >= 0
		or
			not "unfettered: offered bring hai"
			random < 20
	on defer
		set "unfettered: offered bring hai"
	substitutions

> 		# they're speaking Hai but so are the Wanderers

Author: Prob out of scope for this PR though

		<firstgroup> "but because it is in Hai you cannot make sense of the words. Even from afar you can see how malnurished the children are."
			not "language: Wanderer"
		<firstgroup> `and you connect your translation device to understand what they say. Indeed, the Wanderers speak Hai, like they do here. "... and we fear the next season will be even more [rough, hard, taxing]. We need funding to restore the lands; nothing grows on them anymore!"`
			has "language: Wanderer"
		<secondgroup> "He does not seem pleased at all, and appears to speak with contained anger. It appears he demands something of the council."
			not "language: Wanderer"
		<secondgroup> `"Things are going bad. In all my life never has it been more [rough, insupportable]. Never has there been so many in need. Never so little [food, crops], [housing, sanitation]... Something needs to be done, and quickly. We, as a race, are dying."`
			has "language: Wanderer"
		<thirdgroup> "The Chief seems hard broken by this little one's words. After speaking up for all to hear, he explains something to the Hai."
			not "language: Wanderer"

> 		<thirdgroup> `"He asks if he can go to Hai [space, territories]," the Chief conveys, and then responds. "Unfortunately, as you all know, we cannot send back a child alone, he needs to be [taken care of, protected]. Would anyone be willing to do that?"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		<thirdgroup> `"He asks if he can go to Hai [space, territories]," the Chief explains, then continues. "Unfortunately, as you all know, we cannot send back a child alone, he needs to be [taken care of, protected]. Would anyone be willing to do that?"`
```

			has "language: Wanderer"
		<fourthgroup> "He too demands something, but this Hai does not seem to be malnourished at all. Whatever it is he asked, the Chiefs seem bothered by this request."
			not "language: Wanderer"
		<fourthgroup> `"My cousins would like to join me, but they lack the funds to [easily pay, afford] the transport. Would you allow more to join us, and become [True, authentic]?" This seems to bother the Chiefs, and they answer briefly, "We will contact [True, unaltered] ship captains to ask them if they can, but I fear they are indeed [busy, overworked] these days, which is why the prices have gone up."`
			has "language: Wanderer"

> 		<closing> "He speaks with a conclusive tone, and you figure he closed the event."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		<closing> "He speaks with a conclusive and conciliatory tone to the many Hai still waiting in line for the stage."
```

			`	The sun is almost set, and you can see that the Chiefs are growing a bit impatient. One Hai then arrives; he is probably the last one to pass today. Merora tells you, "He made a simple request, which bothers the Chiefs quite a bit, as he is not asking for a child to be transported, but for a full family, and not from here into Hai space, but the opposite. There are not as many captains ready to do that. The Chief said that currently no one is available. They will most probably go and ask captains if it can be arranged, later." Then the Chiefs rise up, and one speaks to the crowd. Merora speaks, once again, "It is over, goodbye. I hope we meet again, <first>."`
			choice
				`	"Could you help me translate some other times?"`
				`	(Let her leave.)`
					goto leave
			`	"I am not even sure I will stay in Unfettered space, but if we meet again, maybe. I do not want to lose any status I might acquire by speaking with you. Some among us are not fan of humans."`
			label leave

> 			`	The crowd, including the young girl, leave, as do the Chiefs later on. You notice one of them looking at you, pensive, as he has just noticed your presence.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	Merora leaves then, joining with the rest of the departing crowd, but on stage, the Chiefs linger until the crowd has mostly dispersed. It seems one has noticed you now that the crowd has thinned; he is watching you pensively as he comes your way.`
```

				goto next
			label continue

> 			`	It is now the turn of a child to come, and he speaks very quietly, as if afraid. He appears lost. One of the Chief comes close to him and reassures him before speaking to his request. <thirdgroup> Progressively, every single Hai stands up, and say what you're pretty sure means "I do" in Hai. The Chief seems very moved by this, as a parent would be to see his child succeed in life. He then designates someone, and the child goes to them.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	A child, younger, or at least smaller, than any other you've seen on stage so far, approaches the Chiefs. All alone, the child seems scared and perhaps even lost as he speaks, so softly even those on stage must be straining to hear. One of the Chiefs breaks ranks to kneel by the child, comforting him as they speak quietly to each other. The Chief rise;. <thirdgroup> Progressively, every single Hai stands up and speaks, the message from each to volunteer clear. The Chief seems very moved by this, as a parent would be to see his child succeed in life. He designates one of the first to stand, and gently sends the child walking over to them.`
```

> 			`	The sun is almost set, and you can see that the Chiefs are growing a bit impatient. One Hai then arrives; he is probably the last one to pass today. <fourthgroup> Then they rise up, and one speaks to the crowd. <closing> At this, the crowd, including the young girl, leave, as do the Chiefs later on. You notice one of them looking at you, pensive, as he has just noticed your presence.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	The sun is almost set, and you can see that the Chiefs are beginning to grow impatient as the next Hai approaches and speaks to them. <fourthgroup> The Chiefs speak amongst themselves briefly then one moves forward to address the crowd. <closing> At this, the crowd, including the young girl who offered to translate for you, leave, but the Chiefs linger until the crowd has mostly dispersed. It seems one has noticed you now that the crowd has thinned; he is watching you pensively as he comes your way.`
```

			label next

> 			`	The Chief moves toward you. He seems to be lost in his thoughts and is mumbling something about you. In your own language, he says, "We do not get alien visitors often here. There has to be a reason for your presence..." When he speaks again, directly to you, it is with more focus. "Sorry, I was just thinking out loud! Well, you are here anyway, so maybe you could help us.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	As he grows closer, you can tell he is mumbling, presumably to himself, but he speaks in your language, "We do not get alien visitors often here. There has to be a reason for your presence..." Once he has closed the rest of the distance, he speaks again, directly to you and with more focus. "Sorry, I was just organizing my thoughts into your language. Well, you are here anyway, so, maybe, you could help us.`
```

			`	"We have friends outside of our space, civilians and others. You see, we would do anything to help a friend, and a few Hai want to join us. I can only hope you are willing to help us reunite with our brothers and sisters from Hai space," he explains, apparently a bit desperate, considering he knows very little, if anything at all, about you.`
			choice
				`	"Of course. What do you need me to do?"`
					goto action
				`	"What do you mean, brothers and sisters from Hai space? Are you not different?"`
					goto brethren
				`	"Why do you need me to do it?"`
			label whyme

> 			`	"Well, normally they would be able to pay to come here, but the price is quite high; too high. The Fettered Hai make it difficult for us to go anywhere; as you have probably noticed they have a fleet on the border between us. And not many Hai captains are willing to come here. If they do, they charge large fees because of the obvious risks involved - for instance, getting killed in the cross fire. Yet you somehow made your way here, probably also under fire from our own people, but, if you choose to assist us, I'll ensure you won't have any issues getting out of here. So, are you willing to help us?"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"Well, normally they would be able to pay to come here, but the price now is quite high; too high. The Fettered Hai make it difficult for us to go anywhere; as you have probably noticed, they have a fleet on the border between us. And not many Hai captains are willing to come here. If they do, they charge large fees because of the obvious risks involved - for instance, getting killed in the cross fire. Yet you somehow made your way here, probably also under fire from our own people, but, if you choose to assist us, I'll ensure you won't have any issues getting out of here. So, are you willing to help us?"`
```

			choice
				`	"Of course. What do you need me to do?"`
					goto action
				`	"This seems like a bad idea. Ask someone else."`
					decline
			label brethren

> 			`	"Then you have heard about the stories of the Drak modifying our people..." He seems a bit sad. "I do not believe in such things. What makes a Hai - or any other species - “true” is in his heart. It will take him wherever he wants to go." He pauses, thinking, and when he speaks again it is with deep conviction. "Even if we war with the Elders, it does not mean we hate other Hai, or they hate us! We do it only because we must, in order to keep living our way. We can still communicate with our people, and eventually they will all be freed from the limits of the Elders."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"Then you have heard about the stories of the Drak modifying our people..." He sighs and deflates a bit. "I do not believe in such things. What makes a Hai - or any other species - “true” is in his heart. It will take him wherever he wants to go." He pauses, thinking, and when he speaks again it is with deep conviction. "Even if we war with the Elders, it does not mean we hate other Hai, nor do they hate us! We do it only because we must, in order to keep living our way. We can still communicate with our people, and eventually they will all be freed from the limits of the Elders."`
```

mission "Unfettered: Bring Medical Supplies Notification"
	landing
	name `Need for medical supplies`
	description `An Unfettered Chief told you to come help the hospitals on <destination> that desperately need supplies.`
	source "Firelode"
	destination "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Bring Hai: done"

mission "Unfettered: Bring Medical Supplies"
	landing
	name `Bring medicals to <planet>`
	description `The Unfettered hospitals on Darkcloak are in urgent need of resupply. Collect <tons> of medical supplies from <stopovers>, and bring it to the Unfettered on <destination> by <date> for <payment>.`
	source "Darkcloak"
	stopover "Snowfeather"
	cargo "medicals" 50
	blocked `You need <tons> of cargo space available to carry the medicals supplies.`
	deadline 8
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Bring Hai: done"
		has "reputation: Hai" >= 0
	substitutions

> 		<prioritymessage> "Unfortunately, because it's in Hai, you can only guess meaning out of it. It has to be pretty important, and you can recognize the Hai words for "disease" and "uncontrolled", as well as numbers in the hundreds."

Author: I'm fine with it, player would be curious to learn more about it and thats good

			`	You manage to leave without anyone stopping you in all the rush, though you're sure someone was trying to get your attention. If they remember you, the Unfettered will likely not be too happy. You probably also shouldn't stay landed here too long in case they decide to follow you.`
			label agree
			`	You are quickly assigned the collection of supplies from <stopovers>, and asked to go collect them as quickly as possible.`
	on stopover
		dialog `You're surprised to see the Hai are more than happy to give you the medical supplies needed. They load up the cargo, and once they are done, one of them addresses you. "Tell our brothers and sisters to stay strong. Hopefully it is not too late," he says with determination.`
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on visit
		dialog phrase "generic missing stopover or cargo"
	on complete
		log `Brought medial supplies to Darkcloak to prevent an epidemic.`
		log "People" "Nimo" `An Unfettered Chief worried for his people, inside Hai or Unfettered territory. He seems to believe that all Hai are equal, and as a member of the council he has significant influence.`
		payment 1500000
		conversation

> 			`The staff seem greatly relieved when you return promptly with the medical supplies. As you're heading to your ship, someone catches up to you. "Hello, captain <last>. I am Nio, manager of this hospital. I wanted to express my deepest thanks to you, and give you the <payment> in person. When you have the time, make sure to check the job board for more jobs like this, it would mean a great deal to me."`

Author: I didnt even notice

			`	On the way back, you notice the same Hai Chief from Firelode, speaking with someone who could be the hospital's chief medical officer judging by their demeanour and attire. He soon sees you as well and moves to speak with you, seeming more than a bit emotional. "I knew you could be counted on as a friend to the Unfettered! With the swift response of captains like you, it seems like it has calmed down. We did not before have the time to get properly introduced. I am Nimo." He makes a little gesture, you assume of deference. You try to imitate the motion, apparently badly, amusing Nimo. "Worry not, <first> <last>, I already know who you are."`
			choice
				`	"I only did what little I could do to help save people. Hopefully I will be able to do more next time we meet."`

> 					accept

Author: It doesnt actually matter but I'll change it to not be confusing you're right

				`	"I have no need to prove myself to a rodent."`
					goto provoke
				`	(Go. He's not worth it.)`
					decline
			`	"Oh so that was your ship indeed! I was not sure, given your reputation, that you would fly in something like that. Your prowess is not exaggerated indeed then, for you managed to not crash on landing with such a thing," he says, and then he turns to address the crowd once again. "I wonder if he could take off again. Maybe he needs our assistance for that."`
				goto lesson
			label provoke
			`	"So the monkey can speak? Let us see if it can fight as well," he says with a provocative tone.`
			label lesson
			`	Time for him to learn a lesson. The thought that you may be in over your head briefly crosses your mind, but you brush it aside.`
			`	After a cheering from his crowd, the arrogant Hai then speaks to you directly. "You and me, in battle, alone, a battle of flagships. Meet me in the skies, above the tallest trees, when you are ready. Except, of course, if you lack the courage to fight me. But rest assured, this is not to be a fight to the death, monkey."`
			choice
				`	"Let me show you my worth in battle. Right now."`
					goto accept

> 				`	(Crush his rodent face, with your fist.)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				`	(Crush his rodent face with your fist.)`
```

					goto crush
				`	"Can you tell me more about the rules of this fight?"`
					goto rules
				`	(Run away.)`
			`	As you move away you hear laughter, but nobody tries to stop you. You have just shown to the Unfettered how much of a coward you are, and will probably never be offered any missions from them anymore.`
				decline
			label rules

> 			`	"I guess you ought to know... You are supposed to bring only your flagship, but if it is too weak then more ships can be accepted, so long as it is a fair battle. Do not expect anyone to accept fighting you if you bring a huge fleet. The challenge will last until either one of our ships is disabled, or one of us gives up. You can put it off for later at any given time for a symbolic bribe of 1000 credits, offered in space before the battle begins. You can even call for a time out that way during the battle if it gets too tough for you, and you want to delay it for when you are truly ready. Finally, it is sometimes tolerated that the victor plunders the ashamed, but absolutely not that he tries to capture his ship. So, are you ready to fight?"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"I guess it only be fair that ye know... Ye're supposed to bring only your flagship, but if you admit it be too weak, then more ships can be brought, so long as still be a fair battle. Do not expect anyone to be fighting ye for honor if ye bring an armada. The challenge lasts until one of our ships is scuttled or one of us agrees to walk the plank. Ye can always stall the call to battle, if ye were to offer a symbolic bribe of 1000 credits, offered in space before the battle begins. The challenge must eventually be answered though, no matter how long or often ye want to delay it. Finally, it is right of the victor to plunders the ashamed, but absolutely not that ye try to capture the ship. So, be ye ready to face yer doom?"`
```

			choice
				`	"Let me show you my worth in battle. Right now."`
					goto accept

> 				`	(Crush his rodent face, with your fist.)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				`	(Crush his rodent face with your fist.)`
```

				`	(Run away.)`
					decline
			label crush

> 			`	You rush his way, fist drawn, and probably give his friends the exact excuse they were looking for to open fire on you. You wake up later, left alone on the floor. Luckily their weapons only stunned you, but you can put a cross on doing any further business with the Unfettered.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	You rush his way, fist raised, giving his friends in the crowd the exact excuse they were looking for to open fire on you. You wake up later, left alone on the floor. Luckily their weapons only stunned you, but you can forget about doing any further business with the Unfettered.`
```

				decline
			label accept
			branch "too many ships"
				"ships: Transport" * 6 + "ships: Light Freighter" * 3 + "ships: Heavy Freighter" * 6 + "ships: Interceptor" * 2 + "ships: Light Warship" * 4 + "ships: Medium Warship" * 6 + "ships: Heavy Warship" * 12 > 12
			`	"Let us prove our worth in battle then, the time for words is over."`
				accept
			label "too many ships"

> 			`	"Nice try, monkey. First you most park some of your ships! I will not be facing of against a huge fleet. One heavy warship is already almost too much. When that is the case, you will see me in orbit."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"Ye cannot run a rig on me, monkey. First ye most park some of those ships! I will not be facing of your whole armada. A heavy man-o-war is already over compensating, after all. When ye are ready for a fair duel, see me in orbit."`
```

			``

> 			`The Unfettered captain will only show up if you have a small enough amount of ships, that is not currently the case. (To park ships press "I", and then select "Park All" or manually select the ships you want to park. You cannot have more than a heavy warship or a few lighter ships for this fight.)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`The Unfettered captain will only show up if you have a small enough fleet for the duel to be fair; you are currently bringing too many. (To park ships press "I", and then select "Park All" or manually select the ships you want to park. For this fight, you are limited to a single heavy warship or a small group of lighter vessels.)`
```

				accept
	npc save disable
		government "Hai (Unfettered Challenge)"
		personality disables staying heroic target launching
		ship "Sari'Sea Scorpion (Pulse)" "Intrepid"
		to spawn
			"ships: Transport" * 6 + "ships: Light Freighter" * 3 + "ships: Heavy Freighter" * 6 + "ships: Interceptor" * 2 + "ships: Light Warship" * 4 + "ships: Medium Warship" * 6 + "ships: Heavy Warship" * 12 <= 12
		to despawn
			"ships: Transport" * 6 + "ships: Light Freighter" * 3 + "ships: Heavy Freighter" * 6 + "ships: Interceptor" * 2 + "ships: Light Warship" * 4 + "ships: Medium Warship" * 6 + "ships: Heavy Warship" * 12 > 12
		conversation

> 			`Now that you have disabled the <npc>, its captain hails you. "It seems you fight well. You have earned my respect today," he says with a voice so calm you are surprised it came from the same captain who was recently provoking you for no apparent reason. In the background you can hear fires roaring. It looks like the damage to his ship was serious.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`Now that you have disabled the <npc>, its captain hails you. "It seems ye fight admirably after all. Ye've earned my respect today," he says with a voice so calm you are surprised it came from the same captain who was recently provoking you for no apparent reason. In the background you hear fires roaring, it seems the damage to his ship was quite serious indeed.`
```

			choice
				`	"Be careful with provoking me. You may have gotten killed. Do not count on me to repair your ship."`
					goto dangerous
				`	"What was this really about?"`

> 			`	"You have earned the right to know. We Unfettered always seek to improve ourselves, be it in combat or otherwise. You come from far away, and we do not have many strangers around here. I wanted to find out about new approaches to the fight. It looks like I may have underestimated your ability to fight too... A mistake which I shall not make again."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"Ye have earned the right to know. We Unfettered always seek to improve ourselves, be it in combat or otherwise. Ye travel from far away, and we do not see many strangers around here. I wanted to see how ye approached me challenge; I hoped I could find knowledge in how you lost. I may have underestimated yer ability to fight though... A mistake which I shall not make again next time."`
```

			choice
				`	"You could have just asked."`

> 			`	"One cannot learn much from words only, and I was not sure how you would react. That is why I provoked you." One of his crew tells him something you do not understand. "Well, that, and yes, maybe I was a bit too prideful, took on a challenge I should not have..." He shouts something in Hai, presumably to the crew member who just spoke.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"We cannot learn from words alone, and ye have not proven yerself to us as one who can be trusted, anyway. That be why I provoked ye." One of his crew mutters something from behind him, but you cannot hear it clearly. "Well, that, and yes, maybe I be a bit too prideful meself, especially when I be three sheets to the wind. I took on a challenge I should not have..." He shouts something in Hai, presumably to the crew member who just spoke.`
```

				goto end
			label dangerous

> 			`	"Worry not. Respect is only to be earned once. From me, at least. Do know there are other captains eager to challenge you, and most are stronger than me. Or, at least, they have more ships..."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"Worry not, matey. Respect only need be earned once. From me, at least. Do know there are other captains eager to challenge ye themselves, and most are stronger than me. Or, at least, they have more ships..."`
```

			label end
			action
				log `Defeated a young Unfettered captain in a duel.`
				set "unfettered: beaten the captain"
				payment 100000
				"reputation: Hai (Unfettered)" += 30

> 			`	"Hopefully we see each other again, sometime." He and his crew seem quite busy with the repairs. "I have transferred a small amount of <payment> to you to repair any damage I may have done to your ship. I will be landing on the surface soon to think about something other than this humiliating defeat I have just suffered. I do not need nor want your assistance in repairing damage, for that is a task best suited for the vanquished."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"Hopefully we see each other again, sometime." He and his crew seem quite busy with the repairs. "I transferred yer booty of <payment> to pay to repair any damage I may have done to yer ship. I be landing on the surface soon, to drown the sorrow of this humiliating defeat I have just suffered. I do not need nor want yer assistance in repairing, for that is a task best suited for the vanquished."`
```

> 			`	"If you are feeling up to the challenge there are other captains that would be willing to duel you, if you do not have a fleet too big of course. None accept to fight more than 2 heavy warhips, some even prefer just 1, like me. Indeed we wish to fight and test your strength and exotic technologies or strategies, not to get humiliated."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"If ye be feeling up to the challenge, there be other captains that would be willing to duel ye, if ye keep fighting fair, of course. None accept to fight more than a pair o' heavy men-o-war, some other, like me, still prefer fighting with a single vessel. Like me, they will wish to fight to test the strength of yer exotic technologies or strategies, savvy?"`
```

	on complete
		clear "unfettered: beaten the captain"

mission "Unfettered: Trust Broken"
	landing
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Prove Your Strength: active"
		"ships: Transport" * 6 + "ships: Light Freighter" * 3 + "ships: Heavy Freighter" * 6 + "ships: Interceptor" * 2 + "ships: Light Warship" * 4 + "ships: Medium Warship" * 6 + "ships: Heavy Warship" * 12 <= 12
	to fail
		"ships: Transport" * 6 + "ships: Light Freighter" * 3 + "ships: Heavy Freighter" * 6 + "ships: Interceptor" * 2 + "ships: Light Warship" * 4 + "ships: Medium Warship" * 6 + "ships: Heavy Warship" * 12 > 12
	on fail
		dialog "You have broken the trust of the Unfettered captain by trying to come to a duel with too many ships. He will not show up again."
		fail "Unfettered: Prove Your Strength"
	to complete
		has "unfettered: beaten the captain"

mission "Unfettered: Prove Your Strength 2"
	name `Recover the jump drives`
	description `Go to the pirate world of <stopovers> and recover jump drives from a vault.`
	source "Darkcloak"
	stopover "Freedom"
	passengers 1
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Prove Your Strength: done"
		has "Unfettered Jump Drive 3: offered"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`As you pass what looks like a bar in the spaceport, you're greeted by the same Hai captain that challenged you earlier. "So we meet again! Next time we fight it will take a lot more if you want to take me down! Well... once I have my ship back, anyway. But that's not why I am here," he says, apparently happy to see you. "I have a job for you!"`

Author: Isnt clipper a kind of ship?
I guess this is well known pirate expression

> 			`As you pass what looks like a bar in the spaceport, you're greeted by the same Hai captain that challenged you earlier. "So we meet again! Next time we fight it will take a lot more if you want to take me down! Well... once I have my ship back, anyway. But that's not why I am here," he says, apparently happy to see you. "I have a job for you!"`

Reviewer: It is also the name of a specific ship in the game, yes.

Mostly was looking to avoid repetition of "ship" or "vessel," but I did want to kind of lean into that confusion though, as it's also an approximately appropriate description of the type of ship the sea scorpion is.

If others think it's -too- confusing, just would need to swap it with something else.

					goto job
				`	"Sure, I would do anything for my favorite squirrel!"`
					goto insult
				`	"Just admit it. You're scared to fight me."`
			`	"Nice try, but I've learned my lesson. Worry not, soon I shall have a bigger ship, and when I do I will be glad to accept that challenge! Most of the time, having the bigger guns at the right place is all the strategy and diplomacy that is needed. In this case, however, I'm lacking said guns, so the best choice is for me to fold. For now, at least."`
			choice
				`	"What can I do for my favorite squirrel?"`
					goto insult
				`	"How soon will you have that new ship?"`
				`	"Well, just do it with that bigger ship then. I'm not interested."`
					decline
			`	"As soon as the this job is done, hopefully! It should pay well - the 'buying a brand new ship' kind of well." Judging from your last encounter, this will probably be a very dangerous mission, but it seems like it may be worth it.`
			choice
				`	"What kind of job is it?"`
					goto job
			label insult
			`	He does not seem to react to the insult. He did call you monkey a few times before, so it's only fair for you to return the courtesy.`
			label job

> 			`	"We're going to collect a few jump drives! Normally you would not be able to get such a job because it requires a lot of trust, but I have gotten it for you, meaning officially this is my mission, and a very lucrative one at that! On top of that, should we succeed, next time you may be entrusted with such missions on your own, albeit on a smaller scale."`

Author: Dont expect near the bounty sounds a bit...unclear? Maybe just add a by to make it "near the bounty by yerself"?

> 			`	"We're going to collect a few jump drives! Normally you would not be able to get such a job because it requires a lot of trust, but I have gotten it for you, meaning officially this is my mission, and a very lucrative one at that! On top of that, should we succeed, next time you may be entrusted with such missions on your own, albeit on a smaller scale."`

Reviewer: Proper would be "nearly the booty."

Could go either way with the pirate speak, so whatever's more comfortable for you :)

> 			`	"We're going to collect a few jump drives! Normally you would not be able to get such a job because it requires a lot of trust, but I have gotten it for you, meaning officially this is my mission, and a very lucrative one at that! On top of that, should we succeed, next time you may be entrusted with such missions on your own, albeit on a smaller scale."`

Author: I dont really personally have an opinion as I'm bad with pirate speak and not an english expert either tbh

> 			`	"We're going to collect a few jump drives! Normally you would not be able to get such a job because it requires a lot of trust, but I have gotten it for you, meaning officially this is my mission, and a very lucrative one at that! On top of that, should we succeed, next time you may be entrusted with such missions on your own, albeit on a smaller scale."`

Reviewer: Switched it up a bit anyway. Should be clearer now :)

> 			`	"We're going to collect a few jump drives! Normally you would not be able to get such a job because it requires a lot of trust, but I have gotten it for you, meaning officially this is my mission, and a very lucrative one at that! On top of that, should we succeed, next time you may be entrusted with such missions on your own, albeit on a smaller scale."`

Author: I love it! Ty for the swift improvement

				goto ship
			label vault
			`	"Yes and no. It is not only a holographic generator but also a set of jammers, meaning your ship cannot pinpoint the exact location, and would have to land blindly. We also needed to make sure the jump drives were not sabotaged, and that the vault was not compromised, as its defenses could probably have taken your ship down. Needless to say, even monkeys could rig the jump drives to blow when placed on a ship and used to jump, and checking that takes time. Besides, we want to keep using this vault for later, so we may as well ensure its safety. That said, it seems to be too compromised for further uses." You have a hunch that there could be to be more to it than what he's admitting.`
			choice
				`	(Go back to the ship.)`
					goto ship
				`	"If this world is so wild, why put the jump drives here in the first place?"`
			`	"The Unfettered are not the ones who placed those jump drives here..." He leaves it at that. The Hai doesn't seem to want to tell you much about this vault.`
			
			label ship

> 			`	As soon as your shpi arrives, you give the orders to collect and either transfer the jump drives into cargo or install them directly on your ship if possible, to be able to flee more swifly. When your ship takes off, you notice more activity near the vault, and in the sky, than on the way in...`

Author: Changed it a bit

> 			`	The Hai comes to speak to you on the bridge. "It took us too long to transfer and install the jump drives, and we seem to have attracted attention. I guess if some of the unfettered humans got away from the vault, they have contacted some friends..." Multiple alarms start going off, confirming his suspicions. Multiple hostile ships are launching and heading straight for you. You launch as soon as you can, rushing through the correct procedures. Meanwhile, the Unfettered captain quickly joins you on the bridge, probably used to being where the action can be seen.`

Author: changed it thx to Ejo

		to spawn
			has "unfettered: stopped on Greenbloom"
		personality escort timid launching
		system "Due Yoot"
		fleet
			names "hai"
			variant
				"Centipede"
				"Geocoris"
				"Water Bug"
	npc accompany
		government "Hai Merchant (Sympathizers)"
		to spawn
			has "unfettered: stopped on Greenbloom"
		personality escort launching
		system "Due Yoot"
		fleet "Small Hai"
	npc evade
		government "Mercenaries"
		to spawn
			has "unfettered: stopped on Greenbloom"
		system "Ya Hai"
		personality disables plunders vindictive
		fleet "Large Northern Pirates" 3
		fleet "Small Northern Pirates" 2
	on complete
		clear "unfettered: stopped on Greenbloom"
		log `Escorted a Hai fleet carying supplies and passengers into Unfettered space.`
		event "unfettered: shipment lost" 20
		payment 500000
		dialog "The fleet admiral thanks you for escorting them, and gives you <payment>. He says you should probably go to the spaceport and speak with Nimo."

mission "Unfettered: Taking Off With Hai Fleet"
	invisible
	landing
	source "Greenbloom"
	destination "Warfeed"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Escort Hai Fleet: active"
	on offer
		set "unfettered: stopped on Greenbloom"
		conversation

> 			`You go meet the fleet admiral assigned to this so you can coordinate, and after a while everyone signals they are ready to take off.`

Author: I fleshed it out a lot

			label choose
			choice
				`	"I will try to bring the loot back without attracting too much attention."`
					accept
				`	"I will find them and bring the loot back, whatever the cost.`
				`	"Why do you not just hire another pirate?"`
					goto whyhire
				`	"Do you have any idea where the stolen cargo could be?"`
					goto cargo
			`	"Please, whatever you do, try to avoid needless bloodshed, these pirates are not our enemies."`
				accept
			label whyhire
			`	"I do not trust them much, but the real reason is that it was our contact that dealt with these kind of preoccupations - we only provided the founds. Sometimes it is one faction that brings us the cargo, sometimes another, and we do not ask questions. So, what do you say?"`
			choice
				`	"I will try to bring the loot back without attracting too much attention."`
					accept
				`	"I will find them and bring the loot back, whatever the cost.`

> 				`	"This is mission is too dangerous for me, the Unfettered will need to find someone else for this one and others like it."`

Author: Its a get out of the campaign I wantedit clear

					decline
			`	"Please, whatever you do, try to avoid needless bloodshed, these pirates are not our enemies. I would hardly recommend bribing those that can be. Do what you must to bring back all 142 tons of materials. And remember to look for it near the Koraths."`
				accept
	on enter "Misam"
		conversation
			`As you enter the system, you notice pirates from Hydra in orbit of the planet. They could have the cargo you are looking for.`
			choice
				`	Demand that the materials be returned to you.`

> 				`	(Say nothing, I have no need to talk with these scums. I shall take.)`

Author: I thought that with the context it was obvious that this was about the materials, and that I could use this abbreviated form, but apparently not

					goto over
			`	The first mate of the <npc> responds to your hail, "That's ours, mate, always has been. You must have suffered a serious blow to the head to think otherwise, especially this deep in our lands. In fact we were the ones that got these stolen before we could bring them to port! Well, after we stole them from a merchant, but that's irrelevant."`
			choice
				`	"What do you intend to do with this cargo?"`
					goto intention
				`	"If you do not give it to me, I will open fire."`
			`	"If I laid down at every threat I received, the masters would have replaced me long ago. Not gonna lie, I don't mind bashing you down a bit."`
				goto over
			label intention
			`	"My masters are coming soon to retrieve it, and if it ain't there no more, I'll be the one they 'retrieve' instead." He says, before abruptly closing the communication.`
			label over
				`They quickly land on the planet, it looks like you will have to pursue them.`
	npc board
		system "Misam"
		government "Hydra"
		to spawn
			has "Unfettered: Cavalry Arrives: active"
		personality target launching plunders vindictive uninterested
		ship "Bactrian (Hydra)" "Rested Snake"
		conversation

> 			`Boarding the ship, it seems like they have other commodities than what you are looking for, but they do have the materials Nimo talked to you about. Given the damage the ship has suffered, it seems it would require heavy works in the spaceport to get it running again, so you should have some time to switch to a ship with more cargo space, should you need to. Take all 142 tons of materials when you can and bring them back to Nimo.`

Author: Its an Outfit

mission "Unfettered: Cavalry Arrives"
	landing
	invisible
	source "New Tortuga"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Materials Intercepted: active"
	on offer
		conversation
			`Realizing you have landed after them, the pirates fire up their launching procedures as fast as they can. It looks like they did not expect you to have the guts to land on such a lawless world. Or maybe they just wanted to delay you...`
				launch
	on enter "Arneb"
		dialog "They have called backup! Multiple pirate ships are arriving in the system. But you see other ships arriving by jump drives. They do not appear to be pirates, maybe the 'contact' has provided help as well?"
	npc save
		system "Misam"
		government "Shadow"
		personality entering heroic uninterested staying disables
		ship "Sea Dragon (Tripulse, JD)" "Thorn"
		ship "Sea Dragon (Tripulse, JD)" "Talon"
	npc
		system "Misam"
		government "Hydra"
		personality plunders vindictive entering
		fleet "Small Northern Pirates" 3
		fleet "Large Northern Pirates"
	to fail
		not "Unfettered: Materials Intercepted: active"
	on fail
		conversation
			branch murdered
				not "normal failed"
			action
				clear "normal failed"
			``
				decline
			label murdered

> 			"One of the ship; Thorn, or Talon, got killed. You will need to restart the mission in order to progress further with the Shadow of Mintaka. The Shadow of Mintaka may want to have their vengeance on you for letting them die, or worse, maybe even participating in it, rumors could tell."

Author: In truth I cant say if the player killed them or not, so I'm just being vague and that whatever happened rumours could say FL killed them
Mb I could know by making them npc kill and with conditions though

			action
				set "unfettered: thorn talon death"
	to complete
		never

mission "Unfettered: Solifuge 1: Geocoris Design"
	name `Scan the Geocoris`
	description `Scan the cargo of the Hai Geocoris in Ya Hai with the Unfettered scanner, then return to <destination> with the scanner logs.`
	source "Firelode"
	waypoint "Ya Hai"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Bring Medical Supplies: done"
		has "Unfettered: Prove Your Strength: done"
		not "Wanderers: Defend Vara Ke'sok: done"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`As you wander through the spaceport, you find a market. You notice that the amount and diversity of goods are very limited. Some of it seems to be completely alien, even by Hai standards. Most Unfettered here are just busy buying food, that is if they can even afford it. You see two Unfettered disputing, probably over the cost of some item, but decide not to intervene given how they generally respond to your mere presence...`

Author: I dont even remember writing it xD

> 			`As you wander through the spaceport, you find a market. You notice that the amount and diversity of goods are very limited. Some of it seems to be completely alien, even by Hai standards. Most Unfettered here are just busy buying food, that is if they can even afford it. You see two Unfettered disputing, probably over the cost of some item, but decide not to intervene given how they generally respond to your mere presence...`

Reviewer: I'll clear it when I get down here. :)

> 			`As you wander through the spaceport, you find a market. You notice that the amount and diversity of goods are very limited. Some of it seems to be completely alien, even by Hai standards. Most Unfettered here are just busy buying food, that is if they can even afford it. You see two Unfettered disputing, probably over the cost of some item, but decide not to intervene given how they generally respond to your mere presence...`

Author: I tried improving it

			label scan
			`	"The information provided by one of our value detectors should be sufficient. If you don't have one, you can install one on Darkcloak, on the way there. You may want to get multiple scanners so you can scan the ship from a longer range, and faster. Please do actively scan it. Passive intel gathered on the fly will not do."`
			choice
				`	"Sure, will do."`
					goto agree
				`	"I'm not interested in scanning ships for you."`
					decline
			label agree
			`	On the way back to your ship, Mera runs up to you. "One... last... thing, captain!" You let her catch her breath. "We have noticed one Geocoris just entered <waypoints> as expected, but seems to have some special modifications. Please scan that one specifically. We have marked its signature for you to recognize it. We want to have a detailed scan of its cargo. Also, I've just found a captain willing to give you one of our scanners. It will be placed in your cargo hold if there is no space on your ship."`
				accept
		outfit "Value Detector"
		log "People" "Mera" `An Unfettered engineer who is interested in ship designs of all kinds. She is easily excited by new technologies and ships.`
	on waypoint

> 		dialog `You do not see the Geocoris that Tear-Fi mentioned; it's probably in a system nearby. You should land and depart when it arrives.`

Author: Its because missions dont do this kind of thing
Its a hack... Yes I have no way to make the ship enter as you enter the system otherwise, usually these are made staying which is dull.
The spawning of those ships is done when you land

		personality target entering uninterested waiting
		system "Ya Hai"
		fleet
			names "hai"
			variant
				"Geocoris"
		dialog `You have scanned the Geocoris. You may now return to <destination> with the scanner logs.`
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on visit
		dialog `You have not scanned the Geocoris yet. Go to Ya Hai to scan it, and then come back here.`
	on complete
		log `Scanned a Geocoris for the Unfettered. They seemed interested in the design - probably with a ship of their own in mind.`
		payment 150000
		dialog `You send the scans to the Unfettered government and receive a payment of <payment>.`

mission "Unfettered: Geocoris Arriving"
	invisible
	landing
	source
		system "Ya Hai"
	to offer
		has "unfettered: entered Ya Hai"
	on offer
		clear "unfettered: entered Ya Hai"
		conversation
			`Shortly after you land, you see the Geocoris signature coming into the system on your radar. You take off immediately.`
				flee

outfit "Alpha Pirate Crew"
	"crew defense" -100
	"crew attack" -100
	"unplunderable" 1
	description `This ship is mostly manned by pirates and not actual Alphas, though they do lead them.`

> 	description `You should not be seeing this.`

Author: Usually outfits you should not be seeing ever have this.
This way if a bug happens the player will know and report it

			`	"Maybe, but it could have provoked them further. They apparently like their secrets. I only wanted to know about the structure of the ship, but I'll agree that knowing more about those weapons would be useful. Now, back to the damage on their ship.`
			label information
			`	"Obviously, this amount of damage has consequences. It looks like they've quickly patched it up, so it won't affect their hull resistance to weapon's fire. However, this is interesting," she says, pointing out particles on her pad you have not seen before. "Another captain found weird particles in that same system. We've never found traces of those particles before. I guess it could mean a shot got through and did some damage to one of the jump drives they are carrying - maybe even the one they use to jump. One thing is certain: these particles are not left by normal human ships, or Hai for that matter. My best guess would be that when the ship jumped, the hole it left behind did not close as quickly as it should, and anti-matter came from the other side. Perhaps it left these peculiar particles when being annihilated by contact with matter. Or maybe the particles just came through the opening in space?`

> 			`	"It doesn't matter much anyway. I suspect that they would have gone back to their base to at least take a look at it, so there should be traces leading to it. Something bothers me about this: from our experience, jump drives either work or explode, without any in between. Maybe it's because the jump drive is not actually being used, and only leaking particles passively, that this is possible? Or maybe the damage done by these weapons is really special. After all, they are more advanced than what we have, or what the aliens up north possess. Only Quargs have a similar level of technology, and they invented the jump drives, so it could be some of these weapons are intended to disrupt it specifically."`

Author: I just removed it its not needed

	npc
		government "Alpha"
		system "Host"
		personality heroic nemesis staying
		ship "Far Osk 27" "Prancer"
		ship "Far Osk 27" "Comet"
		ship "Far Osk 27" "Dagger"
		ship "Far Osk 27" "Oren"
		ship "Far Osk 27" "Mert"
		ship "Far Osk 27" "Dart"
	npc
		government "Alpha"
		system "Host"
		personality heroic nemesis staying
		to spawn
			has "unfettered: thorn talon death"
		ship "Far Osk 27" "Vengeance"
		ship "Far Osk 27" "Greed"
		ship "Far Osk 27" "Darcy"
		ship "Far Osk 27" "Karen"

	to fail
		has "Wanderers: Defend Vara Ke'sok: done"
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on visit
		dialog `You have landed, but without the jump drives. Go and find traces of fuel from the Auxiliary in systems neighboring Hi Yahr. Doon't forget to land on the Alpha base to recover any information or jump drives it may have!`
	to complete
		has "Unfettered: Alphas 3: Bring The Spoils: offered"
	on complete
		log `Captured the Alpha Auxiliary. The Alphas had a trap set for me, but I got the upper hand.`
		outfit "Jump Drive" -10
		payment 10000000
		"salary: Unfettered" = 1000
		conversation

> 			`As you land with the Auxiliary, you notice dozens of Unfettered start coming your way, cheering, and it quickly turns into hundreds. They are probably expecting jump drives, and more keep coming from every direction. Maybe they have not seen this Auxiliary yet, but only heard tales of it, or maybe this is what always happens when it lands, loaded with jump drives. Whatever the case, they seem surprised when they realize it belongs to you. They murmur with each other and then they start saluting, by rising one fist up. First a few do it, then more, until finally all of them are there, saluting in front of you in respect. You notice they are doing different signs with their hand.`

Author: done

			choice
				`	"Let's go then!"`
					goto leave
				`	"Why can't you just use a jump drive and go there yourself?"`
				`	"What will my cut be?"`
					goto cut
			`	"Jump drives are a very prized possession among my people. I would not risk one by travelling through hostile space. You had access to a jump drive, so you should know about the hostiles to the south. The aliens to the north would not be very happy to see me either... A jump drive would not be of any help to us." He seems disappointed by you having to ask such an obvious thing.`
			choice
				`	"Let's go then!"`
					goto leave
				`	"Sorry, but I won't risk my ship by going anywhere close to these pirates."`
					decline
			label cut
			`	"You humans always seem obsessed with money... It is a large sum. I will only take one quarter of it, and you know how much my people value jump drives."`
			label leave

> 			`	"One last thing: We should not go there by jump drive, especially considering where we are going. It would only attract unwanted attention to us. Besides, we should not travel through Wanderer space; I do not want to try their patience or tolerance considering you have some association with us." You accompany him to your ship, and he admits to quite liking the interior, as well as the general look of it. Your ship "is adequate for a warrior," he says.`

Author: Idk much but shouldnt twill have a ' somewhere in it?

> 			`	"One last thing: We should not go there by jump drive, especially considering where we are going. It would only attract unwanted attention to us. Besides, we should not travel through Wanderer space; I do not want to try their patience or tolerance considering you have some association with us." You accompany him to your ship, and he admits to quite liking the interior, as well as the general look of it. Your ship "is adequate for a warrior," he says.`

Reviewer: Yea. I tend to drop leading apostrophes.

Also I left JD in there :3

Both fixed

				accept
	on visit
		dialog "You do not have the jump drives. You either did not go to <destination> to get the jump drives yet, or you left your escort allocated to carrying the jump drives behind - better launch and wait for it."
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	to complete
		has "Unfettered: Jump Drive Retrieval: offered"
	on complete
		outfit "Jump Drive" -4
		payment 3000000
		log `Helped a young Unfettered captain to bring jump drives from a pirate world.`
		log "People" "Si-Ra" `A young, impetuous Unfettered captain who seems to grow wiser by the day. He has impressive leadership and combat skills, and seems to be a fan of acquiring bigger and bigger ships. He's always trying to improve his tactics.`
		conversation

> 			`"Here is your share: <payment>. You have saved my life, Captain <first>, and I shall never forget it. You have earned the right to know my name: "Si-Ra". It is one I deserve and wear proudly. Come see me again soon if you are up for a challenge. I'm sure that I will have what you want. In the meantime, make sure to check the job boards for more missions like this one."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`"Here be yer share: <payment>. Ye have saved me life, Captain <first>, and I shall never forget it. For this, ye have earned the right to know my name: "Si-Ra". It be one I earned and wear with pride. Come see me again soon if ye be up for a challenge. I'll surely be able to find one for ye  even if me own ship not be ready to give ye one. In the meantime, make sure to check the job boards if ye just be looking for more runs like this one."`
```

			branch "hydra question"
				not "Unfettered: Attracted Attention: offered"
			choice
				`	(Let him leave).`
					goto leave
				`	"I heard you say a name, 'Hydra', I believe."`
			action
				event "hydra revealed"

> 			`	"If you really must know, that is how the pirates who attacked us are called." He obviously does not wish to elaborate on it any further.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"If ye really must know, that be how the pirates who attacked us are called." He obviously does not wish to elaborate on it any further.`
```

Author: Maybe we could add a creative way to call those pirates? I dont think he'd think highly of them

Reviewer: Done. I was looking for a place to wedge that in from my reference list ;)

				goto leave
			label "hydra question"
			choice
				`	(Let him leave).`
					goto leave
				`	"Who were these pirates attacking us?"`

> 			`	"If you really must know, they were called Hydra." He obviously does not wish to elaborate on it any further.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"If ye really must know, they be called Hydra." He obviously does not wish to elaborate on it any further.`
```

			action
				event "hydra revealed"
			label leave

> 			`	Then he leaves, after doing what you assume to be a salute to you, his fist risen. You are taken by surprise by the act, and before you have the time to react, he is already leaving. He is probably in a hurry to buy that new ship he told you about.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	Then he raises his fist towards you, presumably some form of salute. The act takes you by surprise, but before you have the time to react, he is already leaving. He is probably in a hurry to buy that new ship he kept going on about.`
```

			`	He switches a level and you hear that the humming of machines suddenly stops. "I have disabled the holographic field generator, meaning your ship can come and pick up the drives. Best have it come here to win time, in the hopes of it reaching us before the intruders come back, in force," he suggests. You quickly send a message to the <ship>, asking them to dock with the vault.`
			choice
				`	(Wait for the ship to arrive.)`
					goto ship
				`	"We could have just come into the vault swarming with ground forces instead of risking our lives..."`
				`	"Is this holographic field the reason we had to go into the vault in person, instead of just connecting it to the ship?"`
					goto vault

> 			`	"We needed to act discreetly so we would have the time to check the status of the jump drives without being swarmed by opportunist pirates. More people would have only attracted more attention and caused the pirates to use the vault's defenses against us for sure. As you have probably noticed, we did not have access to this vault for quite some time. Some unfettered humans could have snuck in and sabotaged the jump drives, like they did with the turrets." You have a hunch that there could be more to it than what he's admitting.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"We needed to act discreetly, so we would have the time to check the status of the jump drives without being swarmed by opportunist pirates. More people would have only attracted more attention and been more targets for the vault's defenses against. As ye have probably noticed, we have not accessed this vault for quite some time. Some unfettered humans could have snuck in and sabotaged the jump drives, like they did with the turrets." You have a hunch that there could be more to all this than what he's admitting.`
```

				goto ship
			label vault

> 			`	"Yes and no. It is not only a holographic generator but also a set of jammers, meaning your ship cannot pinpoint the exact location, and would have to land blindly. We also needed to make sure the jump drives were not sabotaged, and that the vault was not compromised, as its defenses could probably have taken your ship down. Needless to say, even monkeys could rig the jump drives to blow when placed on a ship and used to jump, and checking that takes time. Besides, we want to keep using this vault for later, so we may as well ensure its safety. That said, it seems to be too compromised for further uses." You have a hunch that there could be more to it than what he's admitting.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"Yes and no. It be not only a holographic generator, but also a set of jammers, meaning your ship would not be able to pinpoint the exact location and would have to land blindly. We also needed to make sure the jump drives were not sabotaged and that the vault defenses were not compromised; they could probably have taken yer ship down. Needless to say, even monkeys could rig the jump drives to blow when used. Checking that takes time. Besides, we want to be using this vault later, so may as well ensure its safety. That said, it seems we left it sit too long, it be too compromised for further use." You have a hunch that there could be more to all this than what he's admitting.`
```

			choice
				`	(Go back to the ship.)`
					goto ship
				`	"If this world is so wild, why put the jump drives here in the first place?"`

> 			`	"The Unfettered are not the ones who placed those jump drives here..." He leaves it at that. The Hai doesn't seem to want to tell you much about this vault.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"The Unfettered be not the ones who placed these jump drives here..." He leaves it at that. The Hai doesn't seem to want to tell you much about this vault.`
```

			
			label ship

> 			`	As soon as your ship arrives, you give the orders to collect and either transfer the jump drives into cargo or install them directly onto your ship if possible, to be able to flee more swifly. When your ship takes off, you notice more activity both near the vault and in the sky, than on the way in...`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	As soon as your ship arrives, you give the orders to collect and either transfer the jump drives into cargo or install them directly onto your ship if possible, so you may flee more swiftly. When your ship takes off, you notice more activity, both near the vault and in the sky, than on the way in...`
```

> 			`	The Hai comes to speak to you on the bridge. "It took us too long to transfer and install the jump drives, and we seem to have attracted attention. I guess if some of the unfettered humans got away from the vault, they have contacted some friends..." Multiple alarms start going off, confirming his suspicions - hostile ships are launching and heading straight for you. You launch as soon as you can, rushing through the correct procedures. Meanwhile, the Unfettered captain quickly joins you on the bridge, probably used to being where the action can be seen.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	The Hai comes to speak to you on the bridge. "Batten down the hatches, matey! It took us too long to check and load the jump drives, and we seem to have attracted attention. I guess a lookout got away from the vault and contacted some friends..." Multiple alarms start going off, confirming his suspicions - hostile ships are launching and heading straight for you. You launch as soon as you can, rushing through the correct procedures. Meanwhile, the Unfettered captain joins you on the bridge, clearly used to being where the action is, invited or not.`
```

			choice
				`	"I will land as you ask."`
					accept
				`	"Screw you and your government I am taking that ship down!"`
			`	"Consider this carefully before taking any actions you may regret in the future. Our offer still stands."`
	
	npc
		government "Alpha"
		personality heroic nemesis staying vindictive
		system "Hi Yahr"
		ship "Far Osk 27" "Prancer"
		ship "Far Osk 27" "Vixen"
		ship "Far Osk 27" "Anger"
		ship "Far Osk 27" "Dart"
	
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on complete
		dialog `You are offered some very good beverages to keep you waiting, even by your standards. They probably know of your mission. After a while, the Alpha ship goes away, you can now go back to <origin> with the scanner logs.`

mission "Unfettered: Solifuge 3: Auxiliary Design Logs"
	name `Bring back the scanner logs`
	description `Now that you have scanned the Alpha ship, return to <destination> to get your reward.`
	source "Warfeed"

> 	landing

Reviewer 2: I think Amazinite said something about landing have to be at the top above everything. I might've missed a few before this as well.

Author: Oh so there is actually a rule about the order in which it should be, didn't know about that so I made my custom order, will change it

			choice
				`	(Raise my fist like warriors do.)`
				`	(Bow.)`
					goto bow
				`	(Do nothing.)`
					goto stadium
			`	They approve of your risen fist, and seem happy you understand their culture.`
				goto stadium
			label bow
			`	It does not seem to be the right reaction at all. They shout at you, all form of respect is gone. One very shocked Unfettered soldier even tries to shoot you for this insult! It looks like you have shown yourself to be weak to them. After some time a Warlord arrives and calms them down.`
			label stadium
			`	The crowd lead you to the stadium.`
			`	The council seems surprised to see you return, especially the Unfettered warlord that annoyed you earlier, but they address you with a deeper respect than before. "You have proven yourself. Now we have almost enough jump drives for the next phase..." You look at them intensively, and after a few moments they realize, "Oh right, your payment! Here it is : <payment>!"`
			choice
				`	"I have found Korath prisoners on the Alpha ship."`

> 			`They talk about it and then one of the Unfettered elders speak up, "Perfect, hand them over to us, we will see to it they have all the comfort they need, hopefully in exchange for some technology." They discuss among themselves again, then the warlord from earlier speaks, seemingly with a heavy burden. "Now that you officially work for us, you will have a salary of 1000. We will not make you wear our colors yet because it could cause problems with the Hai. We do not want you to get shot on sight."`

Author: You're right!
But I'm no native english speaker so I can't find the right word, it should be smth in the same vocabulary as tribute but giving the idea you are to use the money for maintaining your fleet, or expanding it

> 			`They talk about it and then one of the Unfettered elders speak up, "Perfect, hand them over to us, we will see to it they have all the comfort they need, hopefully in exchange for some technology." They discuss among themselves again, then the warlord from earlier speaks, seemingly with a heavy burden. "Now that you officially work for us, you will have a salary of 1000. We will not make you wear our colors yet because it could cause problems with the Hai. We do not want you to get shot on sight."`

Reviewer 2: "we will share you 1000 credits" maybe? As in how they might share resource within the community.

> 			`They talk about it and then one of the Unfettered elders speak up, "Perfect, hand them over to us, we will see to it they have all the comfort they need, hopefully in exchange for some technology." They discuss among themselves again, then the warlord from earlier speaks, seemingly with a heavy burden. "Now that you officially work for us, you will have a salary of 1000. We will not make you wear our colors yet because it could cause problems with the Hai. We do not want you to get shot on sight."`

Author: "you will receive a share of 1000 credits from future loots"?

			branch logs
				has "Unfettered: alpha logs"

> 			decline

Author: there is some weird stuff going on with these sometimes, yeah you're right this will literally write 'decline' on the screen
I had to do the same fake text indentation at other places, it does work

			choice
				`	"Sure! I will join this battle."`
				`	"Why would they want to join you?"`
					goto why
				`	"No way, I am not helping your crusade."`
					decline
			`	"I like your enthusiasm, but all things most come in good time. First you need to bring these people back to their new home."`
				accept
	
	on visit
		dialog phrase "generic stopover on visit"
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on complete
		log `Gathered all the Hai who wanted to join the Unfettered that I could find.`
		payment 5000000
		dialog `The Hai are all excited to join the Unfettered, you did notice that more of them are ready for battle than usual, though. You receive your payment of <payment>.`

mission "Unfettered: Greenbloom"
	invisible
	source "Greenbloom"
	landing
	destination "Firelode"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: The Word Has Spread: active"
	on offer
		conversation
			`These 17 Hai calmly enter your ship, most of them do not look like warriors. You see one of them dropping a drawing. He does not seem to have noticed.`
			choice
				`	(Pick it up.)`
					goto take
				`	(Give it back to him.)`
					goto give
				`	(Do nothing.)`

> 			`You still wonder what was on that drawing. It could not have been very important anyway.`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			`	You still wonder what was on that drawing. It could not have been very important anyway.`
```

				decline
			
			label take
			`You wait for them to leave to pick it up but he seems to have suddenly noticed he dropped something and comes back for it. Oh well, no big deal.`
				decline
			
			label give
			action
				payment 10000

> 			`You take the drawing and give it back to the Hai, he seems happy and gives you <payment>.`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			`	You take the drawing and give it back to the Hai, he seems happy and gives you <payment>.`
```

				decline

mission "Unfettered: Darkmetal"
	invisible
	source "Darkmetal"
	landing
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: The Word Has Spread: active"
	on offer
		conversation
			`These Hai appear to be desperate, they say they are looking for a new life, with their brethren. They do not seem to have much to lose.`
				decline

mission "Unfettered: Snowfeather"
	invisible
	source "Snowfeather"
	landing
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: The Word Has Spread: active"
	on offer
		conversation
			`5 Hai are waiting for you on the spaceport. They say they are artists and are looking for inspiration, and a purpose.`
				decline

mission "Unfettered: Icelake"
	invisible
	source "Icelake"
	landing
	destination "Firelode"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: The Word Has Spread: active"
	on offer
		conversation
			`You only find very few Hai here, and they look hesitant to come. One of them asks you, "If we change our mind about joining the Unfettered, could you bring us back?"`
			choice
				`	"Sure, it only makes sense for you to have a choice."`
					accept
				`	"Sorry but I have other things to do."`

> 			`They talk for a bit and after a while still decide to come with you, for the better or the worst.`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			`	They talk for a bit and after a while still decide to come with you, for the better or the worst.`
```

		payment 100000
		dialog `The <bunks> Hai thank you for bringing them here and excuse themselves for any trouble they may have caused, and give you <payment> as compensation.`

mission "Unfettered: Hai Intel"
	name `Bring Intel`
	description `Unfettered warlords have asked you to bring your sensor logs of all Hai systems you have come across recently.`
	source "Firelode"
	landing
	destination "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: The Word Has Spread: done"
	on offer
		dialog `The Unfettered warlords would like to know if you can bring them your sensor logs of all Hai systems you have come across whilst gathering the True Hai to <destination>.`
	on complete
		log `Unfettered warlords were interested in the positioning of the Hai fleets, I gave them my sensor logs.`
		payment 50000
		dialog `The Unfettered give you <payment> for the intel.`

mission "Unfettered: Solifuge 6: Shipyard Upgrade"
	name `Gather intel on Hai shipyards`
	description `Go to <stopovers> and try to discretely learn how their ships are produced.`
	source "Darkcloak"
	stopover "Hai-home"

> 	cargo "Food" 34

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	cargo "food" 34
```

					decline
			`	"Good, then go to <destination> and take the materials there, on this exact location. Do not stay too long and try not to attract attention. These green humans are relentless, like us, and they will not stop at anything if they learn you have this cargo. The place is a shipyard with major extracting operations, so we can easily arrange for you to get said supplies from there without you even having to see anyone."`
			choice
				`	"Time to go then."`
					accept	
				`	"I do not want to do long distance cargo mission, screw the Unfettered and your big ships."`
					decline
	
	on stopover
		dialog `You find your cargo waiting for you, without anyone nearby as planned and take it without asking questions or losing time.`
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on complete
		log `I helped the Unfettered upgrade their shipyards and received a brand new ship! It appears to be a prototype, quite an unstable one at that. However, shield beetles will have to wait.`
		give ship "Shield Beetle Prototype" "Basilisk"
		event "Unfettered: shield beetle mass production" 30

> 		dialog `After unloading all the cargo you go check for the warlord in the shipyard, and you find a Shield Beetle that seems to be waiting for you. There is a projected message on the hull of the ship, "We have a very special reward for you, captain: a brand new ship, produced just for you. It is equipped with plenty of prototypes and has some particularities which I am sure you will like, including a reinforced shield matrix!" You guess that Taer-Fi left you the message.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		dialog `After unloading all the cargo you go check for the warlord in the shipyard, and you find an unusual Shield Beetle that seems to be waiting for you. There is a projected message on the hull of the ship, "We have a very special reward for you, captain: a brand new ship, produced just for you. It is equipped with plenty of prototype weapons and has some particularities which I am sure you will like, including a reinforced shield matrix!" You guess that Taer-Fi left you the message.`
```

			choice
				`	"I will do it."`
					accept
				`	"I almost got caught last time, I am not trying again."`
					decline
	
	on stopover
		outfit "Mystery Cube" -1
		dialog `You land and the Hai start loading their food on your ship. You pretend to want to go outside a bit because you have been crammed in a spaceship for too long (which is actually kind of true), and they do not appear to be suspecting a thing. You find a clearing, in which you happily dig the cube in. You remember to mark the exact spot. And then come back to your ship.`
		
	
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on complete
		log `Placed a mysterious cube in a clearing on Everhope. It should give intel on Hai ship movements to the Unfettered.`
		payment 5000000
		dialog `He Yi is more than happy to see you in his trone room, and gives you a generous payment of <payment>.`

mission "Unfettered: Close Quarter"
	name `Close Quarter Fighting`

> 	description `Hi Ye wants you to bring 10 non lethal weapons, stronger than the pulse rifle, for him to train with the other Unfettered without any danger, on <destination>.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	description `Hi Ye wants you to bring 10 non lethal weapons stronger than the pulse rifle, for him to train with the other Unfettered without any danger. Deliver them to <destination>.`
```

				`	"Okay in that case I will get ready."`
					goto train
			`	"The Basilisk is very strong, but it is only a prototype, it has a few weaknesses."`
			
			label train
			`	"Remember, having a strong fleet and flagship does not matter much if you do not know how to use it properly! If you want to learn how to do that there are a lot of Unfettered captains looking forward to challenging you on the job board."`

mission "Bring Pug Staffs"
	invisible
	landing
	source "Warfeed"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Close Quarter: offered"
	on offer
		require "Pug Peacekeeping Staff" 10
		dialog `Do you want to sell 10 Pug Peacekeeping Staff to the Unfettered? Hi Ye says they can give you <payment> for it.`
	on accept
		payment 2500000
		outfit "Pug Peacekeeping Staff" -10
		dialog `The Unfettered thank you for bringing these 10 staffs to them. They give you <payment>.`

mission "Bring Coalition Weapons"
	invisible
	landing
	source "Warfeed"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Close Quarter: offered"
	on offer
		require "Enforcer Riot Staff" 10
		dialog `Do you want to sell 10 Enforcer Riot Staffs to the Unfettered? Hi Ye says they can give you <payment> for it.`
	on accept

> 		payment 2000000

Reviewer: I would suggest flipping the payments on these, as Heliarch h2h weapons are actually much more difficult to get than Pug.

Also it may be good to make these repeatable, but at a higher quantity, say 50 each or so, to demonstrate supplying them for larger scale training.

Author: You're right on the first point. Right now at least.
However as part of the intro of the Heliarch you get access to them I think. They're still further away though.

But it isn't for large scale training at all, he doesn't want to lose too much money on it.
It's to board the Wanderers without killing them but with a lot of firepower.

Author: If I make it a repeatable it'll be way too easy to farm money with this

Author: I'll add a little something saying "oh what are these? gimme more" when you have between 1 and 49 of them then

		log "Wanderer" `The Wanderers are a birdlike specie that seems weak and is said to inhabit the old lands of the Unfettered Hai.`
		payment 1000000
		dialog `You find the herald back. "Now you can speak to us like a True Hai, finally. By respect to you, we will keep speaking to you in your language. Except for some maybe... You only should use the translator to speak and understand our elders, or at least some of them. They will probably do as if they noticed nothing, but trust me, they care. Oh and here are <payment> for the intel, we could not have gotten it so easily given they shoot our ships on sight."`

mission "Unfettered: Bring Detainer"
	landing
	name `Recover a detainer`
	description `He Yi has asked you to earn a translation device by bringing back a powerful alien weapon, said to be able to neutralize the engines of its target. You should probably look around the sestor automaton's space.`
	source "Warfeed"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Know Your Enemy: active"
		has "First Contact: Wanderer: offered"
		not "language: Wanderer"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`You go find He Yi in his war room, he does not seem too surprised to see you. "I expected you to come here. You most want one of us to act as 'diplomat' with the aliens from the North."`

Reviewer: Not entirely sure what can be done about it, other than a -ton- of branching that could end up getting kind of messy, but just wanted to bring up that I got this mission which mentions He Yi by name before he actually introduced himself in the other mission.

Author: Multiple conditions can be used for only one branching I think (and hope)
I'll just make smth where you are guided to him. But isn't shipyard intel before this?

Author: I think it's simpler if I just make it happen later for now, but I'll change it up at some point to make He Yi more mysterious, in the dark, before he shows his face, and, finally, his name

Author: Happening later is actually very good! You have access to as many SB as you want, meaning you can fight the automatons if you want to.
About He Yi I had forgotten every time you meet him, it is in the spaceport, so I'll just give him a hood at first.

> 			`You go find He Yi in his war room, he does not seem too surprised to see you. "I expected you to come here. You most want one of us to act as 'diplomat' with the aliens from the North."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`You go find He Yi in his war room, he does not seem too surprised to see you. "I expected you to come here. You must want one of us to act as 'diplomat' with the aliens from the North."`
```

			`	You nod.`

> 			`	"Well that is not our way, we do not ask, we take. Things need to be earned, in battle or otherwise, else they have no value. I  have obtained a translator, that is able to translate your backwards language to the one of the Hai. Because these birds speak Hai, you will be able to communicate with them later. I was not sure you were unable to speak Hai, or that the birds would not understand you, they seem to have grasped Hai very quickly, trough methods I prefer not to imagine."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"Well that is not our way, we do not ask, we take. Things need to be earned, in battle or otherwise, else they have no value. I  have obtained a translator, that is able to translate your backwards language to the one of the Hai. Because these birds speak Hai, you will be able to communicate with them later. I was not sure before that you were still unable to speak Hai, or that the birds would not understand your language, as they seem to have grasped Hai very quickly, through methods I prefer not to imagine."`
```

> 			`	"If you want this translator, you will have to earn it. There is something I want, I have heard tales of a weapon that would neutralize one's engines. Such weapon would be a very nice addition to my collection... Well I would obviously use it in battle when the time is right, too. Bring me one of these weapons and you will have earned this translator."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"If you want this translator, you will have to earn it. There is something I want; I have heard tales of a weapon that would neutralize one's engines. Such weapon would be a very nice addition to my collection... Well I would obviously use it in battle when the time is right, too. Bring me one of these weapons and you will have earned this translator."`
```

		has "main plot completed"
		has "language: Wanderer"
	on offer
		conversation
			`You find Si-Ra and Hi-Ye waiting for you on the spaceport. Si-Ra starts speaking to you, "Are you ready for war, <last>?"`
			choice
				`	"Not yet, I will come back when I am."`
					goto later
				`	"I was born ready."`
			`	"And may you die ready, as well." Hi-Ye comes closer and takes you aside to speak to you, privately. "I have managed to buy myself a ship with the money from our last business opportunity. It is much stronger than the old one! And as a warlord, he has a strong fleet as well. You may want to consider this seriously. Do not forget you can call the fight off, to continue it later once you are ready, by giving us a symbolic fee."`
			choice
				`	"You do not scare me."`
					accept
				`	"After thinking a bit... Maybe I should not take such risks, I will not participate in your war."`
					decline
			`	"That is good! Let us fight, on the same terms of honor as before. Take off when you will be ready, we will be waiting for you."`
			label later
			`	"Be sure to come back soon, war cannot wait forever."`
				defer
	
	npc save disable
		government "Hai (Unfettered Challenge)"

> 		ship "Shield Beetle (Pulse)" "Intrepid II"

Reviewer: I think it would be nice to see Si-Ra with some more prototype/special equipment here as well. Show he is advancing through the ranks to earn special access as well as the player.

Maybe not a Basilisk himself, but a variant with ionic blasters and/or the new coolers, etc.

Author: Well he is actually advancing trough the ranks, but at the start he really only has the basic thing, and he even has difficulties buying his new SB without the money you bring him, because he spends it all on drugs and gambling or stuff like that, and takes rash decisions.

He is probably an infiltrated member of the Mercenaries, that's why he was carrying the bars, because he needs money (if you don't steal them, smbd else will given his attitude).
He really isn't a warlord, and these new special weapons are only for them pretty much, given how hard to produce they are. 

And even then, ion doesn't fit his style, he wants firepower. A little tripulse turret would not be out of the question.

Reviewer: Ooo, yea, if you already have specific plans to take him another direction that's even better, and TriPulse Shredders do seem much more his style. Just seemed kind of strange to see someone you've become so involved with that already has an in before you even get there still in just a plain old shield beetle next to both your own prototype and the warlord's :)

		ship "Shield Beetle Prototype (Black)" "Tejolis"
		conversation
			action
				"reputation: Hai (Unfettered)" = "reputation: Hai (Unfettered)" + 100
				event "shield beetles accessible"
			`	"You sure know how to fight, but sheer firepower may not be enough, you should still train more before we are ready to start the war. Also we will require more jump drives than what we currently have, because our Alpha supplies have been disrupted by your actions."`
	
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on complete
		log `Officialy joined the Unfettered Militia. It should be the last time I have to prove my worth to them. At the very least I may now buy all of their ships with this license.`
		"salary: Unfettered" = 5000
		set "license: True Unfettered"
		event "joined the unfettered"

> 		"reputation: Wanderer" <?= -1000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		#"reputation: Wanderer" <?= -1000
```
I'm thinking this should probably be commented out until a2 is at least also ready for testing PR as well, and that PR can uncomment it?

As is you don't actually join the Unfettered in all out war against the Wanderers yet, but still end up locked out of progressing the rest of the story from the only angle available.

Author: Yeah... idk if I can justify that. You get the Unfettered color. With the Hai it can be negociated but with the Wanderers they know what UHai do now, they raid them
For testing purpose yeah but when this pr will be merged I'll still have to uncomment it I think.

		conversation

> 			`He Yi rejoins you on your ship after having parked his, which looks like it is not in the best shape... "We will notify you once you may be of help to the war effort. In the mean time, we have increased your salary to 5000 so you can muster an even larger fleet. Also from now on you will officially have the permission, nay, the obligation to proudly wear our colors. We have signaled this change of colors to the Hai meaning they will not change their behavior with you, recognizing your signature. We cannot say the same for the wanderers though so be carreful."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`He Yi rejoins you on your ship after having parked his, which looks like it is not in the best shape... "We will notify you once you may be of help to the war effort. In the mean time, we have increased your salary to 5000 so you can muster an even larger fleet. Also from now on you will officially have the permission, nay, the obligation to proudly wear our colors. We have signaled this change of colors to the Hai meaning they will not change their behavior with you, recognizing your signature. We cannot say the same for the wanderers though so be careful."`
```

				goto questions
			label weapon
			branch helped
				has "Unfettered: Bring Detainer: done"
			`	"I have heard tales from the Unfettered humans of a weapon that neutralizes the target's engines. Knowing it could only come from the automated killing machines to the East, I went looking for such weapon, under the safety of my cloak. I expected to have to fight somewhat to get it but in fact the killing machines are fighting other killing machines. I just looked at them battle from a distance and then swifly looted a ship... Except it exploded on my face. Disturbed, I looked for another one, and that one did not explode so I took the weapon and came home, victorious. I had barrely enough space in my cargo hold for it."`
				goto otherweapons
			label helped
			`	"Well as you know you brought the detainer to me in exchange for the translation device."`
			label otherweapons

> 			`	"For the other weapons, it was loot collected during the Korath raids that we preciously kept until now, for special occasions. The Sunbeams are the most recent addition to the ship, we got them from looting ships North. And then of course our anti missiles systems are the best for what is needed here: cheap and most importantly efficient countering of a lot of missiles. I do not have unlimited energy to spare... Then for the rest I do not need to introduce you to flamethrowers, they may be very crude but they are effective at overheating ships."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"For the other weapons, it was loot collected during the Korath raids that we have held on to for use in for special occasions. The Sunbeams are the most recent addition to the ship, we got them from looting ships North. And then of course our anti missiles systems are the best for what is needed here: cheap and most importantly efficient countering of a lot of missiles. I do not have unlimited energy to spare... Then for the rest I do not need to introduce you to flamethrowers, they may be very crude but they are effective at overheating ships."`
```

	source "Firelode"
	stopover "Snowfeather"
	passengers 10
	blocked "You will need room for 10 passengers in order to take the next Unfettered mission."
	to offer
		has "Unfettered Jump Drive 1: offered"
		has "reputation: Hai" >= 0
		or
			not "Unfettered: offered bring hai"
			random < 20
	on defer
		set "Unfettered: offered bring hai"
	on offer
		conversation
			`Looking outside you see the sun is setting... it is a breathtaking view that reveals a big white structure in the distance. As you exit your ship you notice movement. You are partly carried by a crowd of Unfettered that seem to be heading to a big, yet simple, square-shape stadium nearby. That building is grandiose compared to its surroundings, distinguished by its sheer length and pure white appearance. In contrast, most buidlings around it appear to be bars or houses, but they are made from less pure materials, or maybe they just have not been cleaned in a long time. Something of great interest must be happening in there, though you notice some Unfettered are just going to the bars around, chatting.`
			choice
				`	(Go to the stadium.)`
				`	(Ignore them and go back to my ship.)`
					defer

> 			`	As you head towards the temple, moving with the crowd, you can start to hear words being spoken loudly. A couple with 4 children is speaking, or more precisely, begging, "... and we fear the next season will be even more rough. We need foundings to restore the lands, nothing grows on them anymore!" The "Chiefs" speak together, and then grant her her request, before the next one in line comes. The sun is almost set, and you can see that the Chiefs are growing a bit impatient. "My cousins would like to join me, but they lack the funds to afford it. Would you allow more to join us, and become true?" This seems to bother them, and they answer briefly, "We will contact True ship captains to ask them if they can, but I fear they are indeed busy these days, which is why the prices have gone up." Then they rise up, and one speaks to the crowd, "It is late, you would do well to go home to care for those near you. Never hesitate to come back to us in the next cycle should you need help." At this, the crowd leaves, as do the Chiefs later on. You notice one of them looking at you, pensive, as he has just noticed your presence.`

Author: It could be called many ways, but perfectly looking white building in the sun inspires temple to me.
This is happening inside the structure, and the sound is amplified to make sure all can hear it (I'll specify it)
The crowd just keeps arriving, there was already a crowd there before the one that arrived; they don't want to spend all the time waiting, and some come just for the part after this; which is a "party" if you will.

		log `Helped some Hai citizens to join the Unfettered.`
		payment 100000
		dialog `The Unfettered thank you for helping these "True" Hai find their way home, and give you <payment>. After discussing with them, the Unfettered Chief says, "If you want to help us again, the hospitals on Darkcloak are in grave need of resupply." Checking back on the group, you can see they are doing fine, and already finding a place to call home. They may not have much, but they seem not to require anything at all, other than to be here.`

mission "Unfettered: Bring Medical Supplies Notification"
	landing
	name `Need for medical supplies`
	description `An Unfettered Chief told you to come help the hospitals on <destination> that desperately need supplies.`
	source "Firelode"
	destination "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Bring Hai: done"

mission "Unfettered: Bring Medical Supplies"
	landing
	name `Bring medicals to <planet>`
	description `The Unfettered hospitals on Darkcloak are in urgent need of resupply. Collect <tons> of medical supplies from <stopovers>, and bring it to the Unfettered on <destination> by <date> for <payment>.`
	source "Darkcloak"
	stopover "Snowfeather"

> 	cargo "medicals" 120

Author: I wish they could ask for a smuch as you can carry... Maybe make it 60?

	blocked `You need 120 cargo space available to carry the medicals supplies.`
	deadline 8
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Bring Hai: done"
		has "reputation: Hai" >= 0
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`After landing, you receive a high priority message which appears to be repeating on priority channels in both Hai and human standard. It is tagged with the information for one of the hospitals nearby. "Assistance requested from all available pilots. Local outbreak of broiling sickness has spread catastrophically and has now been classified as an uncontrolled epidemic. Hundreds are already critically ill and hospitals have declared an emergency situation, fearing the consequences of current medical supply levels. Medical supplies are to be retrieved from <stopovers> for immediate return." Unsure whether they would accept your assistance as an outsider, you decide to go take a closer look and ask. After all, it is unlikely that a Hai disease would be any risk to you.`

Author: Oooh make it in Hai and make you parse meaning from it, I love it.

> 			`	When landing on an Unfettered planet, even after having brought them a jump drive, there is always some lingering tension. Now you feel the tension much more than usual, probably because of the medical emergency. Unfettered are all around, various vehicles coming and going frequently to bring the wounded to the hospital. The hospital itself looks different than the rest of the Unfettered structures, it seems more organized, proper. It is probably the best maintained structure here alongside the shipyards, or at least it has that appearance. One part of it looks to have been grafted onto the rest though, and not by a well trained physician, to say the least... Not even their critical buildings appear to be totally safe from the Unfettered's propensity for haphazard building extensions.`

Author: It's a hospital, makes sense it makes the player think of a graft and a physician when describing it I think, and this is mostly to convey the meaning its very functional and pretty but they expanded it in a rush quite recently.

			`	Considering all of this, the Unfettered may not take no for an answer... Plenty of ships are already taking off to try and get those much needed medicals.`
			choice
				`	(Signal them I am going to get the supplies.)`
					accept
				`	(I do not have time for this.)`
			`	Thankfully it seems that everyone is too busy with the local problem to annoy you or press you into accepting this mission, but this will probably have consequences later. You better not stay landed for too long, or you could draw unwanted attention.`
	on visit
		dialog phrase "generic cargo on visit"
	on stopover
		dialog `You are surprised to see the Hai are more than happy to give you the medical supplies needed. They load up the cargo and once they are done one of they addresses you, "Tell our brothers and sisters to stay strong, hopefully it is not too late," he says with determination.`
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on complete
		log `Brought medial supplies to Darkcloak when it was in great need of them, to prevent an epidemic.`

> 		log "People" "Sha-Ri" `An Unfettered Chief worried for his people, inside Hai or Unfettered territory. He seems to believe that all Hai are equal, and as a member of the council he probably has quite some influence.`

Author: Right below I just did the logs first

		payment 1500000
		conversation
			`The staff seem greatly relieved when you return promptly with the medical supplies. A local administrator takes the time to track you down and give you <payment>.`

> 			`	As you head to leave, you notice the same Hai Chief speaking with someone who could be the hospital's chief medical officer judging by their demeanour and attire. He soon sees you as well and moves to speak with you, seeming more than a bit emotional, "I knew you could be counted on as a friend to the Unfettered! With the swift response of captains like you, it seems like it has calmed down. Maybe we worried too much? We did not before have the time to get properly introduced. I am Sha-Ri." He makes a little gesture, you assume of deference. You try to imitate the motion, apparently badly, amusing Sha-Ri. "Worry not, <first> <last>, I already know who you are."`

Author: It is the Chief from the mission before; and at the end he said you should come to Darkcloak because he thought there was a problem there
I'll just say it's Sha-Ri directly

			choice
				`	"I only did what little I could do to help save people. Hopefully I will be able to do more next time we meet."`
					accept
				`	"What could have caused this crisis? Does it happen often?"`
				`	"Were these supplies for soldiers?"`
					goto soldiers

> 			`	"It depends on who you ask... Some will say the aliens are the reason, given the Hai have a lot of contact with them, and we with the Hai. Of course, the Hai who sympathise to our cause do so to many other causes as well, such as helping aliens with low founds relocate. As you have probably notice we ourselves do not get many visits from outsiders; they obviously do not feel very welcomed when getting shot at for their supplies. That means we are not protected against the diseases they may bring.`

Author: The humans are bringing diseases to the Hai; which themselves have grown immune to most; and don't have as much poverty, and bring them to the Unfettered
Or at least that's what a lot of them think, and one of the reasons you get shot on sight

			choice
				`	"What is a 'Heshi'?"`
				`	"Glad to have prevented a disaster then."`
					decline
				decline
			`	"Oh it is a great predator ruling the sees on our homeworld. It is swift and nimble, you do not see it coming and when you do it is already too late. They have a tongue with a spine at its end that extends to catch its prey, but are not that big so they often hunt in groups. You would translate it as 'sea scorpion', I believe."`
				decline
			label soldiers
			`	"That is a very legitimate question, but I do not view any of the Hai as "soldiers" or otherwise separate. We are all Hai and all deserve to be saved; we do not designate supplies to help some before others. Most of the wounds came from battle, that is true, but the "soldiers" as you say need to be kept well just as everyone else, or else we do all suffer."`
			choice
				`	"Glad to have prevented a disaster then."`
					decline
				`	"So you just tricked me into helping the war effort?"`

> 				`	"Are all Unfettered not soldiers?"`

Author: Maybe ask it in the other way around?

outfit "Gold Bars"
	category "Special"
	cost 64000
	thumbnail "outfit/gold bars"
	mass 2.1
	description "It shines, you can feel its value. For some reason, the text 'nemo me impune lacessit' is written on them. You wonder what that could mean... surely nothing to worry about. Most outfitters are not real 'connoisseurs' of the value these hold though, and would not give you any more than the price of brute gold for it."

ship "Sea Scorpion" "Sari'Sea Scorpion (Pulse)"
	outfits
		"Pulse Cannon" 4
		"Pulse Turret" 2
		"Boulder Reactor"
		"Hai Williwaw Cooling" 2
		"Hai Ravine Batteries"
		"Supercapacitor" 5
		"Hai Diamond Regenerator" 2
		`"Biroo" Atomic Thruster`
		`"Bondir" Atomic Steering`
		"Hyperdrive"
		"Pulse Rifle" 15
	cargo
		outfits
			"Gold Bars" 15	

mission "Unfettered: Prove Your Strength"
	name `Defeat the captain`
	description `A young Unfettered captain has provoked you in a duel, disable his ship.`
	source "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered Jump Drive 2: offered"
		has "Unfettered: Bring Medical Supplies: done"
		has "armament deterrence" > 4
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`You start wandering in the spaceport, and notice that everything around you here is incredibly simple, efficient, and ordered. There seems to also be more warriors here than on the other Unfettered planets, or at least they are less afraid to wander around armed. It seems they ready for action at any time, you are happy to no longer be their enemy, at least for now.`

Author: On other worlds, those without weapons could have been warriors too
I'll need to work on this a bit prob

			`	Eventually you find a gathering, someone speaking to a small crowd of people. They all seem very familiar with each other, and as you watch, they have noticed you too. The one who was addressing the others saunters through the group and over to you. This could mean trouble.`
			`	"This is the monkey you speak so highly off? The one who fears not to come into our space, to fight our ships?" He asks the others, apparently mocking you.`
			choice
				`	"I fear nothing. Do you?"`
					goto provoke
				`	(Say nothing.)`
				`	(Run away.)`
					decline
			`	"See? The monkey dares not even speak! He would not stand a chance in combat! Even our modest ship would bring him straight out of the sky! But we should not even try, or we could hurt the little monkey! But my friends, there is no shame for him to have... with a ship looking like that one I too would be hesitant to fight!" He seems very full of himself, perhaps someone should teach him a lesson.`
			choice

> 				`	"What dare you say about the <ship>?"`

Author: "You dare insult the <ship>?"

				`	"I have no need to prove myself to a rodent."`
					goto provoke
				`	(Go, he is not worth it.)`
					decline
			`	"Oh so that was your ship indeed! I was not sure, given your reputation, that you would fly in something like that. Your prowess is not exaggerated indeed then, for you managed to not crash on landing with such a thing," he says, then he turns to address the crowd once again.`

			label provoke
			`	"So the monkey can speak? Let us see if it can fight as well," he says, with a provocative tone.`
			`	Time for him to learn a lesson. But then it occurs to you that perhaps you are the one who needs to learn humility.`

> 			`	After a cheering from his crowd, the arrogant Hai then speaks to you directly. "You and me, in battle, and leave your fleet parked. Meet me in the skies, above the tallest trees, when you are ready. Except, of course, if you lack the courage to fight me. But rest assured, this is not to be a fight to the death, monkey."`

Author: I'll add "if you have one"

			choice

> 				`	"Let me show you my worth in battle. Right now."`

Author: He's surrounded by a crowd of other rodents and armed.. but let's make it an option where you die

					accept
				`	"Can you tell me more about the rules of this fight?"`
					goto rules
				`	(Run away.)`
			`	As you move away you hear laughter, but nobody tries to stop you. You have just shown to the Unfettered how much of a coward you are, and will probably never be offered any missions from them anymore.`
				decline
			label rules

> 			`	"I guess you ought to know... You are supposed to bring only your flagship but if it is too weak then more ships can be accepted, so long as it is a fair battle. It will last until either one of our ship is disabled, or one of us gives up. You can call it to later at any given time for a symbolic bribe of 1000. Also it is sometimes tolerated that the victor plunders the ashamed, but absolutely not that he tries to capture his ship. So, are you ready to fight?"`

Reviewer: Yes. :)

> 			`	"I guess you ought to know... You are supposed to bring only your flagship but if it is too weak then more ships can be accepted, so long as it is a fair battle. It will last until either one of our ship is disabled, or one of us gives up. You can call it to later at any given time for a symbolic bribe of 1000. Also it is sometimes tolerated that the victor plunders the ashamed, but absolutely not that he tries to capture his ship. So, are you ready to fight?"`

Author: There are some good things on his ship... 
So long as you don't spam stripping all job version of this from all items there won't be any problems but if you do at some point they'll declare war on you

			choice
				`	"Let me show you my worth in battle. Right now."`
					accept

> 				`	(Run away.)`

Author: There is an implicit decline at the end of every conversation, but I can add it if you want

			choice
				`	"You could have just asked."`
			`	"One cannot learn much from words only, and I was not sure how you would react. That is why I provoked you." One of his crew tells him something you do not understand. "Well that, and, yes, maybe I was a bit too prideful, took on a challenge I should not have from someone..." He shouts something in Hai, presumably to the crew member who just spoke.`
				goto end
			label dangerous
			`	"Worry not, respect is only to be earned once. From me, at least. Do know there are other captains eager to challenge you, and most are stronger than me. Or at least they have more ships..."`
			label end
			action
				log `Taught a lesson to a young Unfettered captain, in time we shall see if he learned anything from it.`
				payment 100000
				"reputation: Hai (Unfettered)" = "reputation: Hai (Unfettered)" + 15

> 			`	"Hopefully we see each other again, sometime." He and his crew seem quite busy with the repairs. I have transferred a small amount of <payment> credits to you to repair any damage I may have done to your ship. I will be landing on the surface soon, to think about something else than this humiliating defeat I have just suffered. I do not need nor want your assistance in repairing damage, for that is a task best suited for the vanquished.`

Author: He never learns does he?

		conversation
			`As you pass what looks like a bar in the spaceport, you're greeted by the same Hai captain that challenged you earlier. "So we meet again! Next time we fight it will take a lot more if you want to take me down again! Well... once I have my ship back, anyway. But that is not why I am here," he says, apparently happy to see you. "I have a job for you!"`
			choice
				`	"What is the job about?"`
					goto job
				`	"Sure, I would do anything for my favorite squirrel!"`
					goto insult
				`	"Oh just admit it, you are scared to fight me."`
				`	"I am not interested in helping you."`
					decline
			`	"Nice try but I have learned my lesson. But worry not, soon I shall have a bigger ship, and when I do I will be glad to accept that challenge! Most of the time, having the bigger guns at the right place is all the strategy and diplomacy that is needed. However, in this case I am lacking said guns so the best choice is for me to fold. For now at least."`
			choice
				`	"What can I do for my favorite squirrel?"`
					goto insult
				`	"How soon will you have that new ship?"`
				`	"Well just do it with that bigger ship then, I am not interested."`
					decline

> 			`	"As soon as the end of this job, hopefully! It should pay well. Being able to buy a brand new ship kind of well." Knowing him this will probably be a very dangerous mission, but it seems like it may be worth it.`

Author: I should probably change it by "judging from your last missions together"

			label job
			`	"We are going to collect a few jump drives! Normally you would not be able to get such a job because it requires a lot of trust, but I have gotten it for you, meaning officially this is my mission, and a very lucrative one at that! On top of that should we succeed, next time you may be entrusted with such missions, on your own, albeit on a smaller scale."`
			choice
				`	"Okay... That just seems too good to be true. What is the catch?"`
				`	"If this is your mission you just do it yourself."`
					decline
			`	"Well... The name of the world is 'Freedom', and whilst it may sound nice, it is a unfettered human world and is thus dangerous. That is why I need your ship for transportation trough Hai space. You will also need to have cargo space available for 4 jump drives. You should be warned, this is not a mission for the light hearted."`
			choice
				`	"Let's go then!"`
					goto leave
				`	"Why can you not just use a jump drive and go there yourself?"`
				`	"What will my cut be?"`
					goto cut
				`	"Sorry I will not risk my ship by going anywhere close to these pirates."`
					decline

> 			`	"Jump drives are a very prized possession among my people, I would not risk one by travelling trough hostile space. You had access to a jump drive so you should know about the hostiles to the South. The wanderers would not be very happy to see me either..." He seems disappointed by you having to ask such an obvious thing.`

Author: I'll just say aliens to the north, what he means is go by Hai space not by any other

			choice
				`	"Let's go then!"`
					goto leave
				`	"Sorry I will not risk my ship by going anywhere close to these pirates."`
					decline
			label cut
			`	"You humans always seem obsessed with money... It will be a lot... really a lot! I will only take 25% of it, and you know how much my people value jump drives."`
			label leave

> 			`	"One last thing: We should not go there by jump drive, especially considering where we are going, it would only attract unwanted attention to us. It would not be of use anyway considering we should not travel trough wanderer space, I do not want to try their patience or tolerance to seeing me on your ship." You acompagny him to your ship, and he admits to quite like the interior of it, as well as general look of it, this ship "is adequate for a warrior," he says.`

Reviewer: The mission is supposed to spawn extra pirates on take off if you arrived by JD. It worked in my first okay through, but I'm not sure if it did in my latest or not.

> 			`	"One last thing: We should not go there by jump drive, especially considering where we are going, it would only attract unwanted attention to us. It would not be of use anyway considering we should not travel trough wanderer space, I do not want to try their patience or tolerance to seeing me on your ship." You acompagny him to your ship, and he admits to quite like the interior of it, as well as general look of it, this ship "is adequate for a warrior," he says.`

Author: If you have a JD you get extra pirates
The Wanderers will not react in any specific way, no, they would not shoot at you; for all they know you could be transporting a criminal, or else, they won't attack you unprovocked

				accept
	on visit
		dialog `You do not have the jump drives. You either did not go to <destination> to get the jump drives yet, or left your escort allocated to carrying the jump drives behind, in which case better launch and wait for it.`
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	to complete
		has "Unfettered: Jump Drive Retrieval: offered"
	on complete
		outfit "Jump Drive" -4

> 		payment 3000000

Author: Oh he precisely won't be able to buy a new one, he was overexcited about this and lied a bit to get you to join him
Later on you'll find him ship less

		log `Helped a young Unfettered captain to bring jump drives from a pirate world. It was a really... unforgettable experience, I almost died multiple times but in the end I saved him.`
		log "People" "Si-Ra" `A young impetuous Unfettered captain who seems to grow wiser by the day. He has impressive leading and combat skill, and seems to be a fan of getting bigger and bigger ship. He always leaves room for improving tactics.`
		dialog `"Here is your share : <payment>. You have saved my life, captain <first>, and I shall never forget it. You have earned the right to know my name : "Si-Ra". Come see me again soon if you are up for a challenge, I am sure that I will have what you want." Then he leaves, after doing what you assume to be a salute to you, his fist risen. You are taken by surprise by the act, and before you have the time to react, he is already leaving. He is probably in a hurry to buy that new ship he told you about.`

mission "Unfettered: Attracted Attention"
	invisible
	landing
	source "Freedom"
	destination "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Prove your strength 2: active"
	on offer

> 		require "Jump Drive" 1

Author: I tested it, it does not; because the other mission needs to be active and that arrives as you land
Conditions are not refreshed until you depart again

	on enter "Almaaz"
		dialog `The Unfettered comes to the bridge to warn you, "There are even more unfettered humans than anticipated. I told you not to come here with a jump drive!"`
	npc evade
		government "Pirate"
		system "Almaaz"
		personality disables plunders vindictive
		fleet "Large Northern Pirates"

mission "Unfettered: Jump Drive Retrieval"
	invisible
	landing
	source "Freedom"
	destination "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Prove Your Strength 2: active"
	on offer
		conversation
			`Following the advice of the Hai, you park your ship close to the hidden depot, yet still close enough to the spaceport as to not draw unwanted attention by landing off grid - utilizing one of the lesser used auxiliary spaceports that are often used by captains seeking a degree of discretion. Your crew should be able to intervene should anything go wrong.`

> 			`	You then follow Si-Ra to the hatch. He is well-prepared and quite deft, even given that he is wearing what seems to be a heavy combat suit.`

Author: Line 799 when he says you saved his life
Maybe I should put some more diversity? I am not sure how to name them yet, but it should not be confusing indeed

			`	You are not sure what kind of sign he just did, but it seems pretty clear he wants you to keep quiet. Looking around, you notice the two of you have attracted quite a bit of attention from the locals. While they all seem to have nothing to lose, the vast majority of them are very young and probably not the hardened criminals you had expected.`
			label discrete
			`	You both seem to be heading to a quite far away mountain, where you assume the cache is. At one time you spot a local that appeared to have gotten lost from the village, though you get the distinctive impression that something is odd about him, without being able to pinpoint what. As you get closer, more and more you get the impression that it is no simple, small depot. You pass several security turrets and assume that even more defenses are hidden.  You wonder why these turrets would be in plain sight around a "hidden" depot. You start entering a ridge, and you notice some of your surroundings look... weird, like if the mountain had only been affected by the elements at some places and not others. Suddenly, the Hai stops, and raises in hand high up, palm open.`
			choice
				`	(Stay behind him.)`
					goto stay

> 				`	(Go to the door.)`

Author: Oh right I made it be cloaked but did not edit this

			`	As you reach for the door the Hai shouts something, probably trying to warn you, but it is too late. You have already triggered the security systems, and get ripped to shreds by the turrets, probably not recognized as neutral or ally like he is by the vault's security.`
				die
			label stay
			`	The Hai reaches for some kind of device in his pocket and enters what you assume to be the access codes. By the look on his face, it does not seem to be working very well, though... "Someone else has had access to the vault. This was not expected," he hisses as his grip tightens on his weapon and he dons his helmet. "Stay here, I will take care of it."`
			choice
				`	"Should you not want one extra gun, then?"`
					goto wannafight

> 				`	"What about the locals? They do not seem friendly."`

Author: It is pretty far from the village but you have seen what you assume to be a local but is in fact a true pirate, in the mountain

					goto outside
				`	(Come in.)`
			`	He sighs, "As you wish, but I hope you can take care of yourself on the ground as well as in space. I have disabled the automated defenses just in case they have been hijacked. We just have to go in, make sure they recognize us as friends, and then reactivate them." You really wonder where that vault could be, until you notice that part of this mountain in front of you is a hologram to disguise the entry. You both enter the vault.`
			`	At first you do not notice anything suspicious, the vault is clearly alien in origin, but you cannot pinpoint one race, instead it seems to be a mix of many. All of it is very, very old to say the least, and any lights are non functioning, probably because your friend deactivated them, but maybe even before that... At least there is quite some space to move around, enough for an armored vehicle in fact. As you get used to the darkness inside the vault, you finally notice a flash of light, quite far away on your left.`
			choice
				`	(It is just a light flicking, no need to worry.)`
				`	"GET DOWN!"`
					goto down
			`	It was indeed just a light flicking. From a laser sight, used to acquire a target: you.`

> 				die

Author: It is really meant to be a mission on the verge of suicidal for you (but you will have a checkpoint 2 jumps from here)
He is fine because he is trained and in heavy armor. You are not.

> 				die

Reviewer 3: Given that First Last probably has better gear than Si-Ra, it seems absurd to write it that way. Also, First Last has probably been in hundreds of boarding actions, maybe even against the Korath or the Pug. So s/he is definitely trained, and probably much more experienced than this hotshot squirrel kid.

> 				die

Author: My opinion was that first last was always overseeing the boarding actions and not participating, or at least not putting himself into risk. You never die from a boarding action, except if the last crew (first last) dies. Also that kid has been trained since birth to fight.

> 				die

Author: It was only 2 "die" but I agree with you. I mainly want to make the player understand this is a hard mission, and life with the uhai is risky. I'll make you wake up in a hospital bed

			label down
			`	You get down yourself as you give the warning, then look his way to see if he followed it. He was evidently trained for this, as you shout he does not hesitate nor does he ask any questions. He promptly jumps to the side and, once in a stable position on the ground, fires his rifle. You are impressed by the precision of that weapon as the sniper was quite clearly taken out with the first shot, but still your armored companion fires three more times.`

> 			`	After searching through the vault to find other surprises, the area is declared cleared. Any other stalkers have probably run off after seeing the firepower the Hai brought. You then run the necessary tests on the jump drives whilst he takes care of the security systems.`

Author: Let's say he gives you a device to inspect it

			choice
				`	(Go back to the ship.)`
					goto ship
				`	"We could have just come into the vault swarming with ground forces instead of risking our lives..."`

> 				`	"Why did we have to go into the vault instead of just connecting it to the ship earlier?"`

Author: How else are we going to get the JD on the ship?
The vault is protected by some forcefields; and some mobile parts that look like it is a mountain from the exterior but allow you to access it still

> 				`	"Why did we have to go into the vault instead of just connecting it to the ship earlier?"`

Author: Done!

					goto vault

> 			`	"As you have probably noticed, we did not have access to this vault for quite some time. Some unfettered humans could have snuck in and sabotaged the jump drives. To cripple your ship, or worse." As you head back to your ship, you notice more activity than on the way in. He keeps his rifle well in sight in order to dissuade any potential attackers.`

Author: You're right, I clarified both answers

				goto ship
			label vault
			`	"The point of all of this was to be discrete; jump drives are worth a lot on the black market. We also needed to make sure there was not any malfunctions with them. Even monkeys could rig them to blow when placed on a ship and used to jump. Besides, we want to keep using this vault for later, so we may as well ensure its safety."`
			choice
				`	(Go back to the ship.)`
					goto ship
				`	"If this world is so wild, why put the jump drives here in the first place?"`
			`	"The Unfettered are not the ones who placed those jump drives here..." He really does not seem to want to tell you much about this vault.`
			
			label ship

> 			`	You go back to your ship with the Hai, and give the orders to collect and install the jump drives.`

Author: Well you're installing those that can fit on your ship the rest in the cargo
The JD allows you to jump out of there faster

> 			`	You go back to your ship with the Hai, and give the orders to collect and install the jump drives.`

Author: Actually this is mostly a game mechanics' limitation, we can't do it another way. If the ship has outfit space, they will be equipped, if not they will be in cargo.

	variant 1
		"Marauder Raven"
		"Marauder Quicksilver (Weapons)" 2
	variant 3
		"Marauder Splinter (Weapons)"
	variant 2
		"Marauder Manta" 2
	variant 1
		"Marauder Leviathan (Engines)"
	variant 1
		"Marauder Raven" 2
		

mission "Unfettered: Nemo Me Impune Lacessit"
	invisible
	repeat
	landing
	minor
	source
		near "Ya Hai" 10
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Jump Drive Retrieval: done"
		not "sold bars"
		random < 3
	on offer
		require "Gold Bars"
	npc disable
		government "Mercenaries"
		system
			distance 2 5
		fleet "Marauders" 3
		dialog `After disabling the last of the pirate ships, you wonder what could have motivated such an attack. Maybe you possess something valuable to them? When they entered the system they only sent one message: "nemo me impune lacessit". Whatever it is they were up against, it is probably best to store it on a planet (using U) or get rid of it.`

mission "Unfettered: Nemo Me Impune Lacessit 2"
	invisible
	repeat
	landing
	minor
	source
		near Sol 100
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Jump Drive Retrieval: done"
		not "sold bars"
		random < 1
	on offer
		require "Gold Bars"
	npc disable
		government "Mercenaries"
		system
			distance 2 5
		fleet "Marauders" 5

> 		dialog `After disabling the last of the pirate ships, you wonder what could have motivated such an attack. Maybe you possess something valuable to them? When they entered the system they only sent one message: "nemo me impune lacessit". Whatever it is they were up against, it is probably best to store it on a planet (using U) or get rid of it.`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
		dialog `After disabling the last of the pirate ships, you wonder what could have motivated such an attack. Maybe you possess something valuable to them? When they entered the system they only sent one message: "nemo me impune lacessit". It is probably best to store whatever they were interested in on a planet (using U) or get rid of it.`
```

mission "Unfettered: I Shall Go Unpunished"
	landing
	source
		government "Pirate"
	to offer
		random < 40
		has "Unfettered: Jump Drive Retrieval: done"
		has "flagship crew" > 4
	on offer
		require "Gold Bars" 5
		conversation
			`As you land on the pirate world, you head for the hatch, preparing to get on the surface, but passing by the cargo bay you think you hear a sound. Odd... There should not be anyone there right now, knowing your crew's habits.`
			choice
				`(Its nothing, probably just a rat).`
					goto lostbars
				`(Go investigate).`
			`Arming yourself of your side weapon, you approach the bay as discretely as you can. Worst case scenario is you find one of your own crew, in which case you better not overeact, or someone could get hurt.`
			choice
				`(Ask if someone is there).`
					goto hello
				`(Never too careful).`
			`You go into the cargo bay, on your guards. As you enter you think you saw something move, on your left. There is not much time to think.`
			choice
				`(Call my crew to help).`
				`(Run in that direction).`
					goto run
			label help

> 			`You call your crew to help and try to barricade the ship to prevent escape, but they cannot find anyone. You wonder how they could get away. Just to be sure, you check around the cargo bay. It seems like nothing is missing, but a few bars of golds are out of place. Maybe it was just a malfunction with the ship's gravitational systems.`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
			`You call your crew to help and try to barricade the ship to prevent escape, but they cannot find anyone. You wonder how they could get away. Just to be sure, you check around the cargo bay. It seems like nothing is missing, but a few bars of gold are out of place. Maybe it was just a malfunction with the ship's gravitational systems.`
```

				defer
			label run
			`As you run you see a silouette running too. It is armed and you think you recognize the uniform of a member of your crew. Could he be running after the intruder too? Is this just a big misunderstanding?`
			choice
				`(Order him to stand down).`
				`(Follow him to see where he is going).`
					goto follow
				`(Shoot).`
					goto shoot
			label shout

> 			`There is no doubt that you were heard, but the only reaction from the silouette is to run faster, and by another, more direct path. You cannot catch them and they evade your ship. Thankfully they did not manage to steal anything, only to move a few gold bars.`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
			`There is no doubt that you were heard, but the only reaction from the silouette is to run faster, and by another, more direct path. You cannot catch them and they escape your ship. Thankfully they did not manage to steal anything, only to move a few gold bars.`
```

				defer

			label follow
			`You can now clearly see it is a human women, and you indeed know her. She is clearly heading to the exit, by another path than the one you came in by. You know your ship like your pocket and now it will take her a while. She did not notice you after her, yet.`
			choice
				`(Wait for her near the exit to stun her).`
					goto wait
				`(Order her to stand down).`
					goto shout
				`(Shoot).`
			label shoot

> 			`You hit the crew member in the shoulder and he falls. You go remove his weapon, to be sure, and want to ask for an explanation but the only answer you get is "nemo me impune lacessit", before the crew member loses consciousness. Looking eye in the eye, you could see terror. You put him at a nearby hospital, but when you come back later, he is gone, and no one has seen or heard anything.`

Reviewer 4: Is this a 'he', 'she', or another pronoun?

Author: I wanted to make it a women in one case and a dude in another but I'll just settle with 'they'; I was unfamiliar with that usage before
This mission can happen multiple times

Reviewer: Generally "they" for indeterminate (until reason for using or assuming something else) is best, yea.

Even better to stick with it until person being referred to gives their preference, but a lot of people still find that end of things confusing.

Author: I made it they and tried to add the intruder; crew member etc to make it clear who we're talking about

					goto bliss
				`(Keep her for further interrogating).`
					goto escape
			`She nods, "this is the right choice you are making, captain <last>. You will never be bothered by any of this again, that I promise. I will take these 5 piles, and any more will be sold little by little as you go on any world. If you sell them to any normal outfitters we will easily get our hands on it, so it is no problem to us but you would only be payed the price of brute gold for it."`
			action
				outfit "Gold Bars" -5
				payment 5000000
				set "sold bars"
			``
				decline
			label escape
			`You tighten her hold, and tell your marine to keep a watch on her until you can find someone else of trust, but when you come back later, they are both gone. There is a little word on the spot where some gold bars where. It is written by your marine, and says, "<first>. I am very sorry to break your trust, but trust me, this is for your own good. She would have been killed if he returned without the gold bars, so I let her take a few. You should quit this whilst you still can."`

mission "Unfettered: Bar Selling"
	invisible
	landing
	repeat
	to offer
		has "sold bars"
	on offer
		outfit "Gold Bars" -1

> 		payment 1000000

Reviewer 4: What is the purpose of this? It seems the bars are removed in the mission above if they are sold.

Author: There is no command to 'remove all outfits of this kind'
Thus I have to do it this way, one by one

					goto agree
				`	"Why the sudden interest for that ship?"`
					goto design
				`	"You could just ask the Hai that come to you from their space about it."`
				`	"I do not want to get in trouble with the Hai."`
					decline
			`	"That is what we will be forced to do if you refuse, but we would prefer this to be kept a secret. Also most of the Hai who join us are not warriors, but rather artists, others who want to explore diverse ways of seeing the world, or even simply disagree with the ways of the Elders. So do you agree to do this for us?"`
			choice
				`	"It seems easy enough, I will do it."`
					goto agree
				`	"How do I scan it?"`
					goto scan
				`	"I do not want to get in trouble with the Hai."`
					decline
			label design
			`	"We would like to know how they avoided vulnerabilities in the hull of a ship of such size. Extra space on a ship cannot only be used for cargo... I will tell you more about it later, once you bring us the scans. That is, if you are willing of course?"`
			choice
				`	"Sure, will do."`
					goto agree
				`	"How do I scan it?"`
				`	"That is too mysterious for me, I am not interested."`
					decline
			label scan

> 			`	"The information provided by a tactical scanner should be sufficient, if you do not have one you can install one on Darkcloak, on the way there. You may want to get multiple scanners, so you can scan the ship from a longer range, and faster."`

Author: I will specify you need to use a "value detector"
She does say you can install one on darkcloak, and it is the only tactical scanner there

I cannot tell the player to take a tactical scan of a ship and measure it unfortunately

					goto strong
				`	"I almost did not make it back alive, that was a tough battle."`
				`	"We had to run for our lives."`
					goto run
			`	"Close call, I see. Maybe the Hai should assign a slightly larger fleet next time... Or maybe you yourself need more ships."`
				goto attacks
			label run
			`	"Oh I may have overestimated your strength then, you should wait a while before doing what I am about to ask, because it will require some strength."`
				goto attacks
			label strong
			`	"Perfect! That means you should be ready for what I am about to ask you."`
			label attacks
			`	"I do not know much about warfare, but we Chiefs often speak with the warlords, who are charged with military responsibilities, among other things. One such warlord spoke to me about the unfettered humans attacks, and suggested an idea. Said attacks do not seem that bad to us, after all they only plunder a bit, like we do, but this potential attack on the Hai backlines means they will be able to have fewer ships on our border."`
			choice
				`	"You mean you want me to help these pirates?"`
					goto help
				`	"Are you planning an offensive on the Hai?"`

> 			`	"Absolutely not, but as you know, we are planning an offensive to the North of our space, and it would be better if we did not have to leave too many ships behind, on the border with the Hai." This does indeed make sense tactically, the warlord must have been forced to justify his position in order to convince Sha-Ri to do such a thing, which may result in casualties on the Hai side.`

Author: JD3 if you ask they tell you about it.
The Wanderers are for later, they don't want you to go and annoy them until next PR

mission "Unfettered: Alphas 2: Prove Yourself"
	landing
	name `Find and capture the Alpha Auxiliary`
	description `You found out that the Auxiliary has a leak, try and find traces of fuel around the system you last saw it in, then capture it.`
	source "Firelode"
	destination "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Alphas: Find The Auxiliary: done"
	on offer
		conversation
			`Taer-Fi is expecting you, and comes to your ship right away. She is eager to give you the intel, and hopefully it will help you find the Auxiliary. "I am glad you came so fast! But not to worry that auxiliary cannot be going very far before some serious repairs, not with the kind of damage it suffered anyway."`
			choice
				`	"Get to the point, where can I find it?"`
				`	"What kind of damage?"`
					goto damage
			`	You seem to have stressed her a bit. "Are you always in a rush?" she asks. "Just look for traces of this chemical, it should lead you to them. But this auxiliary is no joke, it can field more than 100 people on it, be sure to have what it takes to capture it!" You remember it had also fighters accompanying it. It will probably be a tough fight.`
				goto agree
			label damage

> 			`	"Some kind of beam weapon, and a very strong one at that, it looks like it only got partially deflected by the shields. I wonder what kind of weapon can do that." She looks intrigued.`

Author: It was a tactical ship which is of the structure of the ship itself, which, as a carrier, interested them
I'll make a hidden mission to scan its outfits and you'll be able to reveal the scans to her here

			
			label agree
			`	You were ready to go but she seems to have something more to say, "Oh and one last thing before you leave, the base is probably far away, so I would advise taking some fuel pods, especially considering these marks on the Auxiliary mean you will probably not have much time to wait to fuel up from the local stars."`
				accept
	
	waypoint "Hi Yahr"
	on waypoint
		dialog `You indeed notice the fuel traces as you come back in the system where you found the Auxiliary. You figure they probably went to the East next with their jump drive, avoiding Hai territory.`
	on enter "Celeborim"
		dialog `You are on the right track, there are small traces of fuel here as well.`
	on enter "Asikafarnut"
		dialog `You are still on the right path, you even find small debris of ships. They probably had to stay here a bit longer to fight them off.`
	on enter "Makferuti" "Sobarati"
		dialog `There are no traces of fuel here, they probably went to another system, looking for refuge from the hostile drones.`
	on enter "Silikatakfar" "Eneremprukt" "Mesuket"

> 		dialog `You cannot find any traces of fuel here. This is not the right direction.`

Author: Well not of that specific Alpha ship
But you got a point here, lets confuse the player a bit and make mesuket look good and the systems next to it bad
I really didnt like the giftbringer mission I got blocked there so I tried to make this one clearer

			`	They discuss among themselves again, then the warlord from earlier speaks, seemingly with a heavy burden. "Now that you officially work for us, you will receive a daily share of 1000 credits. We will not make you wear our colors yet because it could cause problems with the Hai. We do not want you to get shot on sight."`
			branch logs
				has "Unfettered: alpha logs"
			``
				decline
			label logs
			choice
				`	"There are logs on my ship, apparently speaking about the source of the jump drives. I will send them to you."`
				`	"I found out that you set me up with those Alphas."`
					goto setup
				`	(Do not speak to them about the logs).`
					decline
			label showlogs
			action
				log `Found out where the Alphas were getting their jump drives from, in theory at least. The problem is the information is encrypted, but the Unfettered will work hard to decipher it.`
				set "Unfettered: jump drive source"
				clear "Unfettered: alpha logs"
				payment 200000
			`	"Those are probably too well encrypted to be of much use, but we will try to break them anyway. Thank you for sharing this information with us. Here is an extra of <payment> for your troubles."`

> 			label setup

Author: Good catch, I forgot to end it

					decline
				`	"I don't want to have anything to do with you Unfettered anymore."`
			`	"It did not have to be this way, but if you want to go, we will not detain you. Do not expect any shares from us though."`
			action
				clear "salary: Unfettered"
				fail "Unfettered: Alphas 2: Prove Yourself"

mission "Unfettered: Alphas 3: Bring The Spoils"
	invisible
	landing
	source "Avalon"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Alphas 2: Prove Yourself: active"
	on offer
		require "Jump Drive" 10
		conversation
			`You do a detailed scan of the Alpha base to see if there are any more jump drives or anyone who could have witnessed the fight but find nothing. Then you go to the Auxiliary to see the Korath.`
			`	They seem to be prisoners, and you find what appears to be a crudely rigged translation device with them. They do not look to be in a state to talk about anything though, so you should probably go to Darkcloak and talk to the Chiefs about this. Hopefully the Koraths will have recovered by then.`
			choice
				`	(Explore the Auxiliary further.)`
				`	(Leave the planet.)`
					decline

> 			`	As you explore the Auxiliary further, you find out more about their flight patterns. It seems the Alphas had big plans for these prisoners, but they are so well encrypted there is no hope learning details any time soon. You do find their captain's most recent log; apparently they had indeed been waiting here to ambush you on arrival.`

Author: There are a lot of reference to them and they were well secured with a translator so...
Also only important informations such as what they actually learned and where the JD are are encrypted, not everything

			choice
				`	(Rejoice with them.)`
				`	(Go.)`
					decline
			`	You continue the celebration with them, and before long Sa-Ri is drunk again. You figure the pirates from earlier probably knew about the behemoth because of his lack of discretion.`
			choice
				`	"You should be more careful, I almost got beaten to the chase by pirates."`
				`	"What was this loot about anyway?"`
					goto loot
				`	(Just celebrate.)`
					goto celebrate
			`	"A little bit of competition cannot hurt, can it? Since when are you afraid of a few pirates? You may have softened up since we last saw each other..."`
			
			label loot
			`	"Well I guess I can tell you, we had arranged for this behemoth to bring us important tech materials. I cannot tell you more than this but I can guarantee you that you will like the final outcome of it..."`
			choice
				`	"Final outcome?"`
				`	(Leave.)`
					decline

> 			`	"Better guns! These new ones will be perfect against those who dared to occupy our old worlds. Now listen to my words, and listen well: you have to earn your rewards, they do not just drop out of the sky. Well maybe for me it just did, but I did plan the setting!"`

Author: He wants that Korath gun alright and he sees a good opportunity also he can't refrain from giving lessons sometimes, and expose his genius
Okay you'll be able to punch him, and he's had so many drinks he'll laugh about it

				decline

mission "Unfettered: Darkmetal"
	invisible
	landing
	source "Darkmetal"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: The Word Has Spread: active"
	on offer
		conversation
			`These Hai appear to be desperate, they say they are looking for a new life, with their brethren. They do not seem to have much to lose.`
				decline

mission "Unfettered: Snowfeather"
	invisible
	landing
	source "Snowfeather"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: The Word Has Spread: active"
	on offer
		conversation
			`5 Hai are waiting for you on the spaceport. They say they are artists and are looking for inspiration, and a purpose.`
				decline

mission "Unfettered: Icelake"
	invisible
	landing
	source "Icelake"
	destination "Firelode"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: The Word Has Spread: active"
	on offer
		conversation
			`You only find very few Hai here, and they look hesitant to come. One of them asks you, "If we change our mind about joining the Unfettered, could you bring us back?"`
			choice
				`	"Sure, it only makes sense for you to have a choice."`
					accept
				`	"Sorry but I have other things to do."`

> 			`	They talk for a bit and after a while still decide to come with you, for the better or the worst.`

Author: The decline at the end is implicit but I can add it if it makes you happy

mission "Unfettered: Changed Their Mind"
	name `Return Hai`
	description `These Hai have changed their minds about the Unfettered when they saw them, you agreed to take them back to <destination>.`
	minor
	source "Firelode"
	destination "Icelake"
	passengers 4
	blocked `You need space for 4 passengers for an Unfettered mission.`
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Snowfeather: done"
	on offer
		conversation
			`Some Hai seem completely lost in the spaceport, as if they had lost all purpose and direction. You notice these are the same Hai you promised to bring back earlier. Do you want to keep your word and go and see if you could help them?`
			choice
				`	(I only have one word.)`
				`	(Later, maybe they will change their mind again.)`
					defer
				`	(I do not remember making any promises.)`
					decline

> 			`	They recognize you as you approach, and are very happy to see you. "We were worried that you would not come. We are happy to see you did not go back on your word, it means a lot to us. We were exited to see our brethren but this is too brutal for us. It is war that is coming and we do not want to be caught in the middle of it. Only now do we realize the limited resources of our brethren. We would like to help them in another way, from our old home."`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
			`	They recognize you as you approach, and are very happy to see you. "We were worried that you would not come. We are happy to see you did not go back on your word, it means a lot to us. We were excited to see our brethren but this is too brutal for us. It is war that is coming and we do not want to be caught in the middle of it. Only now do we realize the limited resources of our brethren. We would like to help them in another way, from our old home."`
```

			choice
				`	"I will take you back to <destination> then."`
					accept
				`	"What do you mean, how could you possibly help them from there?"`
				`	"I only came to check on you, you will have to find someone else for transport."`
					decline

> 			`	"We will spread the word. Our brethren need us, they need our support and they need our resources. They need more food, more supplies. We will speak about our firsthand experience to other Hai, and they will come to see our way." Maybe what changed their mind was how the little resources were going to be available for themselves, in more egoistic mindset. A thought comes into your mind that maybe, just maybe they could have been sent here by the Hai to gather intel, but that seems highly unlikely.`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
			`	"We will spread the word. Our brethren need us, they need our support and they need our resources. They need more food, more supplies. We will speak about our firsthand experience to other Hai, and they will come to see our way." Maybe what changed their mind was how few resources would be available to them here. A thought comes into your mind that maybe, just maybe they could have been sent here by the Hai to gather intel, but that seems highly unlikely.`
```

					goto curious
			`	"Not at all, they are something much more powerful, something so strong it would put to shame even your famous 'carriers'. We were producing Shield Beetles here for quite some time already, long before your pitiful existence." He actually seems to be believing what he just said, but it is a bit difficult to imagine something that much stronger than a carrier, with Unfettered technology that is.`
			choice
				`	"Why can I not buy Shield Beetles here then?"`
				`	"Nothing is better than a carrier."`
					goto brag
			`	"Until now we did not allow you to purchase our biggest ships because we do not have the capacity to build enough of them at the same time. But you may help us with that, actually."`
				goto mighty
			label brag
			`	"Stupid monkey, thinks it knows everything... There are higher powers in this galaxy, and even then that is not required to match that carrier, because even if it is big and impressive, we have made something more advanced."`
				goto mighty
			label curious
			`	He was about to say something, but instead ignores your question.`
			label mighty

> 			`	"If you want to help us and get access to our mighty shield beetles, go to <destination> where they make most if not all of their big ships and gather intel on how they mass produce them." The Hai will probably not approve if they learn about this, but who needs their approval if you can buy shield beetles here instead?`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
			`	"If you want to help us and get access to our mighty Shield Beetles, go to <destination> where they make most if not all of their big ships and gather intel on how they mass produce them." The Hai will probably not approve if they learn about this, but who needs their approval if you can buy Shield Beetles here instead?`
```

				`	"Actually I am here to buy a ship."`
					goto buyship
				`	"I have never seen such a big shipyard before, how can you manage it?"`
					goto questions
			`	"Oh that it is! Well I will leave you to it then." He seems to be watching you, but stops as you move far enough away.`
				goto finishscan
			
			label questions
			`	"It is quite simple actually, all that is needed is to efficiently distribute the ship in the right way," he goes on babbling about it, you try to remember everything so you can add it to your scans as extra information. When he is done he asks, "Would you like me to give you a tour? My pause is soon anyway so I may take it early for you." You wonder if he is stalling for time.`
			choice
				`	"Yes, please I would like a tour of all of it, especially the big ships."`
				`	"No thank you, I came to retrieve a tribute and I think I should get going now, before the Unfettered starve."`
					goto suspect
			`	He actually gives you a VIP tour of the whole shipyard facility, which is too good to be true. At the end he drops you at the local militia office, and they have some questions for you about that scanner they find on you...`
				decline
			label buyship

> 			`	"Oh, it that so. Well normally I cannot sell you a ship but I could make an exception for you... But you do understand I cannot sell you a warship." You understand he may mean you will have to pay more for said ship. Better prepare your bank account! It may not be prudent for you to back off now, as he would probably suspect something... Seeing you are hesitat, he adds, "There is no issue if you do not have the money right now, I can offer you a loan of the exact price of the ship, with a small... bonus."`

Author: He is not really supposed to be the one doing the sale but that's not the biggest issue. 
He suspects you, and probably imagines you getting them for some not so legal business.

				decline

mission "Unfettered: Solifuge 9: Shield Beetles Mass Production"
	name `Bring industrials materials`
	description `Go to <stopovers> and load up <cargo>`
	source "Darkcloak"
	stopover "Covert"
	cargo "industrial materials" 500
	blocked `You need 500 cargo space for the next Unfettered mission.`
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Solifuge 8: Useful Korath Scientists: done"
		has "Unfettered: Loot: Ion Cannon Materials: done"
	on offer
		conversation
			`You see the Unfettered warlord you brought intel to, near the shipyard. He seems to be giving orders to make preparations for incoming changes. Do you go see him?`
			choice
				`	(Sure I want my Shield Beetles!)`
				`	(Later.)`
					defer
			`	He does not seem very surprised to see you. "Coming for more big ships?" You feel like him asking this is just a formality, he already knows your answer.`
			choice
				`	"Yes, just tell me what to do to help."`
					goto help
				`	"Why do you say that?"`
			`	"I know that your species loves big things. I guess that makes two of us. Since you are here, you can help us anyway."`
			label help

> 			`	He checks his plans and consults a few experts, estimating the quantities you should bring. "We need industrial materials to build the new sections, a lot of them. We already have a big cargo on the way, but more would help speed things up significantly, especially given the distance."`

Author: He knows you are using a JD, also those who are sending the supplies are already sending some but the real reason... is that you cost less to do it.

					decline
			`	"Good, then go to <stopover> and take the materials there, on this exact location. Do not stay too long and try not to attract attention. These green humans are relentless, like us, and they will not stop at anything if they learn you have this cargo. The place is a shipyard with major extracting operations, so we can easily arrange for you to get said supplies from there without you even having to see anyone."`
			choice
				`	"Time to go then."`
					accept	
				`	"I do not want to do long distance cargo mission, screw the Unfettered and your big ships."`
					decline

	on stopover
		dialog `You find your cargo waiting for you, without anyone nearby as planned and take it without asking questions or losing time.`
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on complete
		log `I helped the Unfettered upgrade their shipyards and received a brand new ship! It appears to be a prototype, quite an unstable one at that. However, shield beetles will have to wait.`
		give ship "Shield Beetle Prototype" "Basilisk"
		event "Unfettered: shield beetle mass production" 30

> 		dialog `After unloading all the cargo you go check for the warlord in the shipyard, and you find an unusual Shield Beetle that seems to be waiting for you. There is a projected message on the hull of the ship, "We have a very special reward for you, captain: a brand new ship, produced just for you. It is equipped with plenty of prototype weapons and has some particularities which I am sure you will like, including a reinforced shield matrix!" You guess that Taer-Fi left you the message.`

Author: I meant some special modifications; some uniqueness, the new guns, the shield matrix

	source "Darkcloak"
	waypoint "Alcyone"
	destination "Warfeed"
	on offer
		conversation
			`You are starting to get quite used to Unfettered spaceports, and strangely you are not even surprised by the amount of damage there is around on different non essentials structures anymore. At least the shipyards, hospitals and the stadium of the council are all in perfect shape, that is what matters most after all.`
			`	You want to see a bit of change for once, and wander on a side of the spaceport you have not explored before, but it does not seem that much different than the rest.`
			`	You get interrupted in your thinking by a local Unfettered, he seems to have a very important mission to give you, given how fast he is speaking. "He Yi has asked me to deliver you a message! It has come to his attention that an item of great importance to us is currently in the possession of an unfettered human warlord." You guess he is referring to a pirate leader. "Said warlord can be found in <waypoints>, we want you to go and retrieve that item right now, in whatever way you deem fit."`
			choice
				`	"How will I know which warlord it is?"`
				`	"This seems too risky for me."`
					decline

> 			`	"It is no common warlord. To say the truth it is the most powerful warlord there, and his ship is the 'Degenerate', you may have to bring it down in order to complete the mission. He may accept a payment instead, but do remember, we are not willing to pay a fortune for this item so if you cannot face him you may have to debourse quite a large sum of your own money. The warlord, Mari, got the item from another warlord. Also you need not worry about how to find said item, it is... unique, you will understand once you see it. Once you have it, bring it back to my master, you have been given access to his war room, on <planet>." Mari sounds like the name of a woman to you, it is impressive she has managed to rise so high in power, among a pirate culture that is. But maybe you have misjudged them.`

Author: Well the pirate culture as I understand it is the strongest leads; and in those circumstances I thought that they would still have the backwards mentalities some still have today.
There is a female UHai warlord coming; and that isn't unlikely or anything, but for pirates I thought so; could be changed though. In FW one of the negotiators can't go because of his sexual orientation.

			choice
				`	"I will depart as soon as I can."`
					accept
				`	"Is it common for the Unfettered to use heralds to bring messages?"`
				`	"This seems too risky for me."`
					decline
			`	"We do not believe technical ways of communicating to be safe, and they break the link between us. Messages could easily be spied upon by anyone intercepting it, so for some confidential missions like this one, yes it is quite common to use heralds. On top of that, the warlords generally have better things to do than moving around giving missions all the time. Do you have enough information? What shall I say to my warlord?"`
			choice
				`	"You could have just sent a message on a secure channel."`
				`	"This seems too risky for me."`
					decline

> 			`	"What is secure? There is no code that cannot be broken, and I did not have to travel far anyway. The fettered Hai have become quite apt at languages, by communicating with so many different species. Encryption is just like another language. We cannot risk them learning of this particular mission, you will understand why later. Information is the key here, and it always has been. We also do not want those North to learn from this, they would surely be able to decrypt it.`

Author: ES has no separate dialects for different worlds of humans? A shame.
Idk, I guess this is the same mistake I made earlier saying many aliens came to Hai space; whereas the ES universe is so very much human oriented.
The wanderers will go speak to the Hai capital when the UHai attack them; and then understand what's going on and make real first contact

mission "Unfettered: Special Cargo 1B"
	invisible
	landing
	source "Stormhold"
	destination "Warfeed"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Special Cargo: active"
		has "reputation: Hai" >= 0
	on offer
		require "Mystery Cube" 0
		conversation
			`You land on the planet, next to one empty spot, hoping the Degenerate will land there. He does not seem to want to take any chances, and lands near a few of his own warships, in the middle of his boys. You feel like you are in a pirate nest. You try to get close to the Degenerate without dragging too much attention to yourself, and are now very close to it. You assume that the item would be within said ship.`
			choice
				`	(Try to steal the item.)`
					goto steal
				`	(Try to bargain.)`
					goto bargain
				`	(Take a captive and ask for the item in exchange.)`
			`	You manage to find one isolated pirate that looks like he is important, but still not enough to have personal bodyguards. You manage to take him hostage, but it is hard to restrain him, given his strength. Then you go and ask for the special item and all pirates laugh at your face before shooting you. It does not seem like they care the least in the world about any other pirate.`

> 				die

Author: > How far from the others was this guy?
Completely isolated.
> If it's so hard to restrain him, how do we actually manage to get him to the larger group without him overpowering us?
A gun.

I mean it's meant to be a stupid option so the way it fails does not really matter that much to me. That said I have an idea: we roll a dice, if you are lucky then you outpower him (and I clarify that you threaten him with a gun sneakily by behind, and the difficulty is in forcing him to move with you, and the initial setting is you see the group; see him separate and then ambush him when far enough)
If you fail to outpower him he kills you himself.

			label steal

> 			`	You manage to enter the ship discretely, some people will always notice but you try to pretend being a worker there to assist in the repairs, using equipment you found laying around without anyone to care for them. You should be able to go pretty much anywhere on the ship. You do not have any expertise in actual ship repairs though so your cover could easily be blown. There is no going back now, except maybe if you choose to provoke the warlord in a fight to get the item, in space.`

Author: I like to give many options in this missions but yeah some make more sense than others indeed but that's on purpose

			choice
				`	(Search the lower decks.)`
				`	(Search close to the weapons stations.)`
					goto weapons
				`	(Search the bridge.)`
					goto bridge
				`	(Look near the engines.)`
					goto engine
				`	(Check amongst the cargo.)`
					goto cargo
				`	(Search the upper decks.)`
				`	(Leave the ship before you get caught, and provoke the warlord.)`
					goto challenge
			`	You notice a lot of security stations around, they obviously care a lot about their warlord's security. Or at least she does.`
				goto caught
			
			label weapons
			`	This part of the ship is mostly full of toperdoes, apparently the warlord loves them. But there are not many people here, this part of the ship having suffered no damage, and many torpedoes have been used, they will probably come to refill them soon so you should hurry.`
				goto found
			label bridge
			`	This bridge is very luxurious, you see that this warlord likes comfort, for herself at least. But you cannot find anything that looks unique at all.`
				goto caught
			label cargo

> 			`	There are a lot of exotic things here with the cargo, most of which are probably not legal at all. You better choose what to take with you, and fast! You also notice the presence of gold bars. There is no way you could carry all of them back with you discretely, but you can drop them of the ship and then go take them once you are out, hoping nobody will notice. Looking trough a porthole you do not see anyone around at the moment, there even convenientely is some sand here, so the bars should go under it and be hidden.`

Author: The sand is below the ship, yes, outside the cargo hold.

			branch knowsbars
				has "Unfettered: I Shall Go Unpunished: offered"

> 			`It may not be what you are looking for, but these bars are probably worth a little fortune, and you reckon you could get away with 30 tons of them. They have special markings on them and are probably worth more than their worth in gold! You can always take out the pirate lord's ship afterwards, and claim the item as your own.`

Author: I meant the opposite, the gold you can just drop in the sand and pick up with a crew mate, this is a pirate world not a highly secured navy base

				goto fake
			label knowsbars

> 			`You recognize the same bars that earned you betrayal from a member of your crew. They have a huge value, be it by selling them back to those interested, or keeping them, there has to be something special about them given the values some attribute them. Knowing how people react to them, they would probably not touch them, even if they did notice, given they could be killed to retrieve them. This is a pirate world after all.`

Author: It's a reaction taking into account you had the cargo bay experience, though now that I think about it maybe it won't always work mechanically wise

				flee
			label takebars
			`You drop the bars and then come out of the ship without too much worry, as you do not carry any items on you. Afterwards you go around the ship to the location where they are partially buried in the sand, and take them discretely with some members of your crew. You have to silence one or two curious pirates but that is about it, and you can now head back to your ship. As expected they have noticed the theft, as you notice them launching before you can do so yourself. This will be a bumpy ride.`
			action
				outfit "Gold Bars" 15
			``
				flee
			
			label caught
			`	You do not manage to find the item here, however you have attracted way too much suspicions by looking and opening crates everywhere you could. One local worker asks you something about mechanics. Being no engineer yourself, you cannot make any sense of what he says, even less formulate a correct response, and he denounces you. You are captured and sold as a slave.`
				die
			label found
			choice
				`	(Take an alien looking modified torpedo warhead.)`
					goto stupid
				`	(Take an alien skull.)`
					goto wrongitem
				`	(Take a weird looking small cube.)`

> 			`	Surprisingly, you appear to have found what you where looking for: a small cube, completely regular and seemingly alien in design. Maybe the warlord was not aware of its value, considering he placed it here, without much protection, and without even trying to hide it. This has to be the item that He Yi wants, so you take it with you. Its small size makes it perfect for any spying, as well as for taking it with you, discretely. This probably will not go unnoticed for long however, so you launch as soon as you can. The original pirate fleet is already heading your way, smelling something suspicious...`

Author: This is one of the cubes the navy asks privateers to place on random worlds; I never figured out if they were the same as the wanderer ones but nevertheless its easy to imagine one of them would be intercepted/sold.

				launch
			label stupid
			`	You try to disassemble the torpedo, but you do not have enough time to do so.`
				goto caught

			label bargain

> 			`	You ask around and find the first mate of the warlord, Mip. He seems intrigued by your request. "I assume you are referring to the item my warlord just acquired, it is indeed very mysterious, which sells well on the black market. Also I do not know you, so you would have to give quite a large sum if you really want it, especially because you cannot just go and speak to my boss as if you knew him." He thinks a bit, looking at what kind of things you are wearing, estimating how much you would be willing to pay, he also looks on his pad, probably for records of your ship and fleet. "10 million credits," he says in a definitive tone.`

Author: To rob you of your money!

> 			`	You ask around and find the first mate of the warlord, Mip. He seems intrigued by your request. "I assume you are referring to the item my warlord just acquired, it is indeed very mysterious, which sells well on the black market. Also I do not know you, so you would have to give quite a large sum if you really want it, especially because you cannot just go and speak to my boss as if you knew him." He thinks a bit, looking at what kind of things you are wearing, estimating how much you would be willing to pay, he also looks on his pad, probably for records of your ship and fleet. "10 million credits," he says in a definitive tone.`

Author: Maybe there should be a dice rolled and you may end up with a wrong item?

			branch nodeal
				not "Unfettered: brokered deal"
			action
				clear "Unfettered: brokered deal"
				payment 2000000
			`	You tell him that you had to pay a few millions to get the cube. "You were not supposed to negotiate, but I guess that is acceptable. These <payment> will alleviate the cost. Next time try to show more strength, it is all that Unfettered in general respect. Thankfully money is not really much of an issue to us."`
			label nodeal
			`	"I want you to go to <stopovers> and pretend to take food for us there. You will of course take the food, like last time, but that is not the main reason for your visit. The trick you pulled of last time, with pretending to bring food supplies, should work again. I have no desire to innovate until it is required by the conditions."`

> 			`	"All I want you to do is go there and place this cube at a spot that seems convenient to you, it can be anywhere on said world, but it has to not be spoted by anyone. You will need to be able to describe its exact locatio to me though, so we can get it back later."`

Author: Yeah but it's an excuse to go there otherwise you'd look suspicious coming for no good reason, asking questions around about ship designs

> 			`	"All I want you to do is go there and place this cube at a spot that seems convenient to you, it can be anywhere on said world, but it has to not be spoted by anyone. You will need to be able to describe its exact locatio to me though, so we can get it back later."`

Author: Just to be clear; the Warlord is intended to be paranoid

			choice
				`	"I will do it."`
					accept
				`	"What will this cube do?"`
				`	"I almost got caught last time, I am not trying again."`
					decline
			`	"You have earned the right to know, considering it is you who brought it to us. It is a very advanced spying device, that should let us know everything that happens on this world, as well as in orbit of it."`
			choice
				`	"Why this particular world?"`
				`	"I will do it."`
					accept

> 			`	"All important Hai ships are built on their homeworld. That would be a perfect place to put this cube, but we do not want to bring too much heat on you. Ships that get produced there are sent to the worlds who border us. Also because this is their home system, it makes sense that a lot of their fleets go trough it. We want to learn more about their fleet movements, in order to be able to react in time, should the worst arrive: our lessers could attack us when we seem weak."`

Author: The "operatives" are just UHai who pretended to defect, just to clarify.
They don't have a ship, or a full sensor tower to know of all ship movements here, and all ship production on the planet either, or details on any potential new ship designs... The Uhai want to know as much details as they can, and with specific details of how many pass here they can estimate how many will be at the border, with what ships and equipement/new ships even, and counter it, meaning they would need less ships to stay there to defend
And they don't mind extra intel on how the shipyard works either

			`	"That is wonderful! Good initiative. But there still is something we would like you to do. Scout all of their systems for us, and bring back any information you may gather."`
			choice
				`	"I will do it."`
					accept
				`	"No. I will not help you anymore."`
					decline
			label speakhai
			choice
				`	"How can I learn Hai?"`
				`	"Is there some kind of translator?"`
					goto translator
			`	"Well to be frank we do not have to ability to teach all of its nuances to you in time. However we believe that our brethren do have some way of doing that, given how apt they are with languages, and how keen they are to meet new races."`
			label translator
			`	"We think our Hai brethren may indeed have what we need, but we need a way to obtain it. In the meantime, you should go and meet the aliens up North, and speak with them. They may not allow you to land on most of their planets. They may have grown distrusfull of newcomers, probably because of our actions. Go and see how pathethic these birds are, and then you should probably go to He Yi about that translator."`
			branch neutral
				has "reputation: Wanderer" >= 0"
			choice
				`	"But I am at war with them already."`

> 			`	"We know. Here is a message in Hai that you will transmit to them. Hearing it, they should behave as though they have never seen you before... It is probably best you do not know what is in this message though. You need to make the Hai see this new alien race as an ambassador between our races, the Hai would not believe anything if it came from us. We do not want to drag our brethren into a conflict that is ours, we are the warriors, not them. But they still need to see how weak the birds are."`

Author: That you have stolen this ship? That you repent for your actions?
Honnestly I'm not sure this is a failsafe to make the mission possible and not too hard even if you are at war with them

			`	You nod.`
			`	"Well that is not our way, we do not ask, we take. Things need to be earned, in battle or otherwise, else they have no value. I  have obtained a translator, that is able to translate your backwards language to the one of the Hai. Because these birds speak Hai, you will be able to communicate with them later. I was not sure before that you were still unable to speak Hai, or that the birds would not understand your language, as they seem to have grasped Hai very quickly, through methods I prefer not to imagine."`
			`	"If you want this translator, you will have to earn it. There is something I want; I have heard tales of a weapon that would neutralize one's engines. Such weapon would be a very nice addition to my collection... Well I would obviously use it in battle when the time is right, too. Bring me one of these weapons and you will have earned this translator."`
			choice
				`	"Sure, I will go and bring it back for you."`
					accept
				`	"Where can I find said weapon?"`

> 			`	"The ones who spoke to me about it are the green humans, and we know that they were moving a lot trough the automated killing machines territory, so you would do well to go and look East of here, maybe a bit more to the South, because there are legends speaking of an everlasting battlefield. One that never ends to make carnage, as if gods were laughing in the background, enjoying the show that seems without end."`

Author: The Alphas regularly travel trough automaton space to reach them; and they don't want the UHai to go that way and find the source of the JD
Also they mostly spoke about it and then it became legends amongst the Hai

			action
				fail "Unfettered: Know Your Enemy"
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on visit
		dialog `You do not yet have the weapon He Yi asked for, look East for it, judging by the tales it should be a pretty big one.`
	on complete
		outfit "Korath Detainer" -1
		set "language: Wanderer"
		dialog `He Yi is impressed that you managed to bring this detainer to him, and happily exchanges it for a translator. He says you should still go to his herald to bring him news of this, and the scans for a reward.`

mission "Unfettered: Cloaking Interest"
	invisible
	minor
	source "Warfeed"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Special Cargo 2: done"
		random < 20
	on offer
		require "Cloaking Device"
		conversation
			`A herald tells you He Yi wants to see you again in his war room, for a very generous proposition. He says it is in no means urgent.`
			choice
				`	(Comply with the request.)`
				`	(Later.)`
					defer
			`	When you arrive you see He Yi, standing proudly in front of a statue, in his war room. "I had no idea you were a disciple of Tejolis as well."`
			choice
				`	"What do you mean?"`
				`	(Let him continue speaking.)`

> 			`	"You have somehow acquired an item I myself was only a thing of legends. Something so precious and yet so evasive. I want it. I am of course referring to the 'cloaking device'. I consider this item of the highest importance, and I am willing to give you 50 millions for it. I will not lie to you, this item almost guarantees the survival of the one who has it, if he knows how to use it properly. It would also allow new ways of approaching this war."`

Author: Do note that this won't block anything, this is only an option.
Hey he wants a good deal can you blame him if the player's an idiot? Seriously he's only loaning it for the duration of the campaign in reality, he'll be giving it back at the end (~~but that's not PRed yet~~)

> Also, wait 'til I tell him about Remnant ships.

Oh right that seems very complicated, but I think I could make it work with @Zitchas

			choice
				`	"I accept."`
					accept
				`	"I do not want to trade it at this time."`
				`	"I refuse."`
					decline
			`	"I understand, but keep in mind that my very generous offer may not stand forever..."`
				defer
	on accept
		payment 50000000
		outfit "Cloaking Device" -1
		log `Gave my cloaking device to He Yi for a very big sum. It should keep him safe.`
	on decline
		log `He Yi asked me to sell him my cloaking device, I refused.`

ship "Shield Beetle" "Enhanced Shield Beetle (Pulse)"
	add attributes
		"outfit space" 2
		"weapon capacity" 3
	outfits
		"Tripulse Shredder" 8
		"Boulder Reactor"
		"Geode Reactor"
		"Hai Ravine Batteries"
		"Hai Diamond Regenerator" 2
		"Hai Williwaw Cooling" 3
		"Outfits Expansion"
		"Pulse Rifle" 40
		"Dual Pulse Pistols"
		`"Bondir" Atomic Thruster`
		`"Bufaer" Atomic Steering`
		"Hyperdrive"

ship "Shield Beetle Prototype" "Shield Beetle Prototype (Black)"
	sprite "ship/hai marauder shield beetle"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/hai marauder shield beetle"
	add attributes
		"hull" 5200

> 		"spinal mount" 1

Author: Well to equip a detainer of course!
No but seriously looking at the marauder shield beetle becca made it has that spinal mount there
~~plus don't you want to sell him the dragonflamme cannon?~~

> 		"spinal mount" 1

Author: If you meant the hull specifically you won't be able to get this ship legally at least for quite some time, and you'll have to protect him so I want him to not die too quickly.

			choice
				`	"Not yet, I will come back when I am."`
					goto later
				`	"I was born ready."`
			`	"And may you die ready, as well." Hi-Ye comes closer and takes you aside to speak to you, privately. "I have managed to buy myself a ship with the money from our last business opportunity. It is much stronger than the old one! And as a warlord, he has a strong fleet as well. You may want to consider this seriously. Do not forget you can call the fight off, to continue it later once you are ready, by giving us a symbolic fee."`
			choice
				`	"You do not scare me."`
					accept
				`	"After thinking a bit... Maybe I should not take such risks, I will not participate in your war."`
					decline
			`	"That is good! Let us fight, on the same terms of honor as before. Take off when you will be ready, we will be waiting for you."`
			label later
			`	"Be sure to come back soon, war cannot wait forever."`
				defer

	npc save disable
		government "Hai (Unfettered Challenge)"
		ship "Enhanced Shield Beetle (Pulse)" "Intrepid II"
		ship "Shield Beetle Prototype (Black)" "Tejolis"
		conversation
			action
				"reputation: Hai (Unfettered)" += 100
				event "shield beetles accessible"

> 			`	"You sure know how to fight, but sheer firepower may not be enough, you should still train more before we are ready to start the war. Also we will require more jump drives than what we currently have, because our Alpha supplies have been disrupted by your actions."`

Author: Good point, he should be more humble.
I'll even let you give him tips

				goto questions
			label hull
			`	"As you have probably noticed, the hull is not in the standard Hai colors. It is, partly, a matter of taste for discretion but the biggest reason is that this ship was built out of the wreck of an old Korath warship. Those materials are more sturdy than normal Hai ones, which is why this ship is so resilient to hull damage."`
				goto questions
			label cloak
			`	"Many years ago, when the Korath attacked us, they used a ghost ship. It would attack the convoys and then diseapear without a trace, without even jumping out, nothing. Then once the warships would get away he came back, always harassing us. The Ghost managed to take on a lot of convoys and escorts without issues, using its superior technology and strategic advantage. But it was no real ghost, everyone has a weakness. His weakness was that whilst we could not see it, it did not mean that it was not there anymore."`

> 			`	"With this in mind, the brave Unfettered laid a trap for the ship. When it disappeared they stopped shooting like usual, and made him overconfident, doing confused movements, dropping part of their cargo as if they were in distress. So he reappeared He saw the other ships coming in but did not react to them in time and got close - too close - to the convoy. Once the fleet arrived, he disappeared but it was too late for him and his limited agility. One of the convoy ships near him rammed him, which costed the life of the proud captain but revealed the ship. Then it was just a matter of shooting it down. The cloaking device was damaged in the fight, or maybe it was already damaged before, knowing the ship never cloaked for long, so we could not extract it from the wreckage. Instead we built a ship based on that wreckage's materials, and the cloaking device is a part of it."`

Author: Weren't the raids before they split and really starting warring? Also they would probably have some kind of countermeasures to it, given their advancement; which the Hai definitely do not
The cloaking device you have came from the Korath too; this is a much weaker one (which I'll be able to make it so after a given PR I'll open anytime soon)

> 			`	"With this in mind, the brave Unfettered laid a trap for the ship. When it disappeared they stopped shooting like usual, and made him overconfident, doing confused movements, dropping part of their cargo as if they were in distress. So he reappeared He saw the other ships coming in but did not react to them in time and got close - too close - to the convoy. Once the fleet arrived, he disappeared but it was too late for him and his limited agility. One of the convoy ships near him rammed him, which costed the life of the proud captain but revealed the ship. Then it was just a matter of shooting it down. The cloaking device was damaged in the fight, or maybe it was already damaged before, knowing the ship never cloaked for long, so we could not extract it from the wreckage. Instead we built a ship based on that wreckage's materials, and the cloaking device is a part of it."`

Author: Mechanically I want him to have a cloaking device because later on you'll have to protect him or fail the missions, and I can't guarantee the player will "sell"(loan) they cloaking device to him, also he needs it to get his detainer should you not provide him with one; it's easy to say he used his cloaking device for it

> 			`	"With this in mind, the brave Unfettered laid a trap for the ship. When it disappeared they stopped shooting like usual, and made him overconfident, doing confused movements, dropping part of their cargo as if they were in distress. So he reappeared He saw the other ships coming in but did not react to them in time and got close - too close - to the convoy. Once the fleet arrived, he disappeared but it was too late for him and his limited agility. One of the convoy ships near him rammed him, which costed the life of the proud captain but revealed the ship. Then it was just a matter of shooting it down. The cloaking device was damaged in the fight, or maybe it was already damaged before, knowing the ship never cloaked for long, so we could not extract it from the wreckage. Instead we built a ship based on that wreckage's materials, and the cloaking device is a part of it."`

Reviewer: Hai did not fight the Remnant, but they did fight the Builders, and the smaller Ka'het have built in cloaking.

His could perhaps be an artifact from that war, pulled out of a dissected Ka'het and integrated into various Warlord ships since?

I do myself also like the implication that the Korath occasionally snag cloaks from -somewhere- though, and while we don't know where just yet, the FW one is not some uniquely random occurrence.

				goto questions
			label weapon
			branch helped
				has "Unfettered: Bring Detainer: done"
			`	"I have heard tales from the Unfettered humans of a weapon that neutralizes the target's engines. Knowing it could only come from the automated killing machines to the East, I went looking for such weapon, under the safety of my cloak. I expected to have to fight somewhat to get it but in fact the killing machines are fighting other killing machines. I just looked at them battle from a distance and then swifly looted a ship... Except it exploded on my face. Disturbed, I looked for another one, and that one did not explode so I took the weapon and came home, victorious. I had barrely enough space in my cargo hold for it."`
				goto otherweapons
			label helped
			`	"Well as you know you brought the detainer to me in exchange for the translation device."`
			label otherweapons

> 			`	"For the other weapons, it was loot collected during the Korath raids that we have held on to for use in for special occasions. The Sunbeams are the most recent addition to the ship, we got them from looting ships North. And then of course our anti missiles systems are the best for what is needed here: cheap and most importantly efficient countering of a lot of missiles. I do not have unlimited energy to spare... Then for the rest I do not need to introduce you to flamethrowers, they may be very crude but they are effective at overheating ships."`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
			`	"For the other weapons, it was loot collected during the Korath raids that we have held on to for use on special occasions. The Sunbeams are the most recent addition to the ship, we got them by looting the ships to the north. And then of course our anti missiles systems are the best for what is needed here: cheap and most importantly efficient countering of a lot of missiles. I do not have unlimited energy to spare... Then for the rest I do not need to introduce you to flamethrowers, they may be very crude but they are effective at overheating ships."`
```

		dialog `You look for the young Hai, but realize that he took a ride on one of your escorts! Better depart and wait for your escorts to arrive in this star system.`
	on complete
		payment 100000
		dialog
			`You need not have worried about the reception the Unfettered youth would receive here on Hai-home. Scarcely minutes after you hesitantly contact the Hai government, a happy crowd has gathered around your ship. When he steps out of the hatchway, he looks stunned at being welcomed so warmly. One of the Hai governors thanks you for transporting him, and pays you <payment>.`
		"reputation: Hai" += 10

phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	word
		`You have failed an essential Unfettered mission. You may want to reload.`

mission "Unfettered: Neutral With The Hai"
	name `Get forgiven by the Hai`
	description `The Unfettered have asked you to go negotiate with the Hai to stop your conflict with them. Go to <destination>.`
	source
		attributes "unfettered"
	destination "Mirrorlake"
	clearance `You speak with the local authorities and they agree to meet with you.`
	to offer
		has "reputation: Hai" < 0
		has "Unfettered Jump Drive 3: offered"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`On your promenade you find an Unfettered elder who chastises you as a father would to a misbehaving child, "What have you done to anger our brethren?" You begin to answer, but he immediately interrupts you, "Never mind, it matters not. What matters is that you settle this petty dispute you have with the Hai government right now! Or, in the future, cooperation with us will become difficult."`

Reviewer 5: "On your promenade" is a turn of phrase that will set people off for being an obscure word usage.

Author: `Whilst wandering near the spaceport` feels better?

			choice
				`	(Accept.)`
					goto agree
				`	"You have no place to tell me what to do."`
				`	"I can manage your weak brethren, bother me not with this again."`
					decline
			`	He looks at you gravely, "Your loss. Do not come here crying when the Hai are causing you difficulties."`
			choice
				`	"Wait, I have changed my mind!"`
				`	(Go.)`
					decline
			`	He makes a show of thinking it over before responding, "Well, I guess I can forgive your insolence, this time. But listen to what I am about to say."`
			label agree

> 			`	"Go to their home system and make your request, the Hai government despises conflict, so they will most likely grant it. They won't let you land on their homeworld given the circumstances, though, so go to Mirrorlake instead."`

Author: My idea of it was that there were Hai and UHai elders; that they split as they are clearly different entities.

> 			`	"Go to their home system and make your request, the Hai government despises conflict, so they will most likely grant it. They won't let you land on their homeworld given the circumstances, though, so go to Mirrorlake instead."`

Reviewer 5: Hmm, I think they're called chiefs in Hai Reveal for the Unfettered - but in either case they would then say either "our Elders" or "the Hai Elders" if both were elders.

> 			`	"Go to their home system and make your request, the Hai government despises conflict, so they will most likely grant it. They won't let you land on their homeworld given the circumstances, though, so go to Mirrorlake instead."`

Author: I will rename them to chiefs then it makes sense considering their culture

				accept
	on complete
		conversation

> 			`You find the Hai leaders that agreed to meet you and express your request to settle the disputes between you. They consider this amongst themselves before responding, "Tell us, <last>, captain of the <ship>, why should we grant you such a request?"`

Reviewer 5: Needs fleshing out.

			choice
				`	"Because otherwise you get shot!" (Draw your weapon)`
					goto death
				`	"I know I have done stupid things in the past, but I have learned my error. I promise not to make such mistakes again."`
				`	"I can continue bringing food to the Unfettered for you, so they do not starve to death."`

> 			`	They seem willing to give you a second chance. "You have convinced us, but we will not grant you this pardon twice."`

Reviewer 5: These choices definitely need to have meaningful outcomes, and probably be revisited.
As it stands if I was one of the Elders I'd laugh in your face and have you arrested with either of these answers.

Reviewer 5: What you probably need is a mission or discussion before this to lay more groundwork so you can bring them a justified reason.

Author: The player is not supposed to see this mission, except if he fucks up, and I can only think of 2 missions where you help the Hai, I really meant this as "oh you though you could be at war with the Hai when siding with UHai? well no worries dudes, now rep is reset but don't do it again"

Author: I developped in furhter, do tell me what you think

mission "Unfettered: Bring Hai"
	name `Bring True Hai back`
	description `Bring <bunks> Hai from <stopovers> to <origin>.`
	source "Firelode"
	stopover "Snowfeather"
	passengers 10
	blocked "You will need room for 10 passengers in order to take the next Unfettered mission."
	to offer
		has "Unfettered Jump Drive 1: offered"
		or
			not "Unfettered: offered bring hai"
			random < 20
	on defer
		set "Unfettered: offered bring hai"
	on offer
		conversation
			`As you exit your ship you notice a group of Unfettered that seem to be discussing something of importance in a big, yet simple, square-shape stadium nearby. A few Unfettered are already heading their way to listen, it does not seem to be restricted of access.`
			choice
				`	(Go see them.)`
				`	(Ignore them.)`
					defer
			`	As you head towards them one separates from the rest and comes to meet you. He seems to be lost in his thought and is mumbling on, something about, "We do not get alien visitors often here. There has to be a reason for your presence..." When he speaks again, directly to you, it is with more focus, "Sorry, I was just thinking out loud! Well you are here anyway so maybe you could help us?"`

> 			`	"We have friends outside of our space, civilians and others. You see, we would do anything to help a friend, and a few Hai want to join us. I can only hope you are willing to help us reunite with our brothers and sisters from Hai space," he says, apparently a bit desperate, considering he knows very little if anything at all about you.`

Reviewer 5: I have no idea what this scene is actually doing, and this Hai seems very confused and not at all like they're representing the group, which I presume was the intent.

Reviewer 5: Right, yeah none of that is clear at all.

Author: How does it seem now?

			choice
				`	"Of course, what do you need me to do?"`
					goto action
				`	"What do you mean, brother and sisters from Hai space? Are you not different?"`
					goto brethren
				`	"Why do you need me to do it?"`
				`	"This seems like a bad idea, ask someone else."`
					decline
			
			label whyme

> 			`	"Well normally they would be able to pay to come here, but the price is pretty high; too high. The Hai make it difficult for us to go anywhere; as you have probably noticed they have a fleet at the edge of our system. And not many Hai captains are willing to bring them here, or at least they ask for a big fee, because of the obvious risks involved, like getting killed in all that cross fire. Yet you somehow made your way here, probably also under fire from our own people, but now that we are allied, you hopefully should not have any issues getting out of here. So, are you willing to help us?"`

Reviewer 5: This clashes somewhat with the content introduced with #6500 (Hai merchants) which introduces Merchant Sympathisers who can fairly safely slip through. Of course, they could be busy, or otherwise preoccupied, or perhaps too many sympathisers have recently turned back to peace and they need to recruit some more - i.e. you.

Author: The approach here is to say it costs a lot given not everyone is a sympathiser, hence the `for a big fee`, but I could add that they are lacking enough for the big amount of people joining recently, given action is coming.

Reviewer 5: Then that's what needs to be talked about, the increase in demand.

Of course, the Unfettered know that action is coming, but how is that information getting out to the Hai to encourage joiners? It's recent news so if it's getting out enough to lift demand then you probably need to include some content somewhere to make it felt outside of Unfettered space.

Reviewer: Perhaps an event to trigger spaceport news in Hai space about rumors of increased activity and recruitment by the Uhai?

Author: The Hai sympathisers come to UHai systems, and giving a few JD to the UHai is enough to gain knowledge that they'll attack the aliens north soon, so it doesn't look like that big of a secret.
Yeah we could definitely add that sort of things, and maybe adapt the things Hai and UHai say when you hail them, too

			choice
				`	"Of course, what do you need me to do?"`
					goto action
				`	"This seems like a bad idea, ask someone else."`
					decline
			
			label brethren

> 			`	"Then you have heard about the stories of the Drak modifying our people..." He seems a bit sad. "I do not believe in such things, what makes a Hai -or any other species- “True” is in his heart. It will take him wherever he wants to go." He pauses a bit, thinking, and when he speaks again it is with deep conviction. "Even if we war with the Hai government it does not mean we hate it's people or them us! We do it only because we must, in order to keep living our way. We can still communicate with our people, and eventually they will all be freed from the limits of the Hai government."`

Reviewer 5: Again, refer to the government in explicit terms, as in the other suggestion I made.

			choice
				`	"Will this get me into any trouble with the Hai?"`
				`	"What limits?"`
					goto limits
				`	"Why do you need me to do it anyway?"`
					goto whyme
				`	"I believe they would not have their place here, I will not bring them."`
					decline

> 			`	"Quite the contrary! They may not believe in our way of doing things, but they would never dare to restrict the movement of their own people. It would be against all they stand for. Even if we behave differently they know we are still Hai, and that we would never hurt Hai civilians."	He seems confident.`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
			`	"Quite the contrary! They may not believe in our way of doing things, but they would never dare to restrict the movement of their own people. It would be against all they stand for. Even if we behave differently they know we are still Hai, and that we would never hurt Hai civilians." He seems confident.`
```

			choice
				`	"What is it exactly you want me to do?"`
					goto action
				`	"I am not interested in moving people around."`
					decline
			
			label limits
			`	"I mean that they are prevented from reaching their true potential. Once we had many stars and planets to call ours, but since then most of the Hai have decided to stop changing, to stay peaceful with all species, no matter how primitive. They have chosen to decay, to grow soft. The Unfettered are the ones who choose to keep our legacy, our way of life and then to evolve, to grow."`
			choice
				`	"What is it exactly you want me to do?"`
				`	"I am not interested in moving people around."`
					decline
			
			label action

> 			`	"Oh it is pretty simple actually, you only need to go to <stopovers>, pick up <bunks> Hai and bring them to this planet, they will find their way from there." You somehow doubt that affirmation, seeing how everything here is in a deprecated state to say the least. You hope that at least the Hai actually know about that fact, or you may actually have to bring them back...`

Reviewer 5: "deprecated" - not the word you're looking for

Author: "Decadent" would be it?
I am still learning the nuances of english, being able to understand others or to convey my general meaning is of course not really sufficient when it comes to writing, which is why I need the help of you guys.
Btw, thx for the review!

Reviewer 5: My guess would have been 'dilapidated" - but I'm not entirely sure the vibe you're looking for.

Author: What I mean is that they live in a city that would almost look abandoned, with living conditions that aren't the best

Reviewer: Dilapidated would be best then I think.

mission "Unfettered: Bring Medical Supplies Notification"
	landing
	name `Need for medical supplies`
	description `An Unfettered elder told you to come help the hospitals on <destination> that desperately need supplies.`
	source "Firelode"
	destination "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Bring Hai: done"

mission "Unfettered: Bring Medical Supplies"
	landing
	name `Bring medicals to <planet>`
	description `The Unfettered hospitals on Darkcloak are in urgent need of resupply. Collect <tons> of medical supplies from <stopovers>, and bring it to the Unfettered on <destination> by <date> for <payment>.`
	source "Darkcloak"
	stopover "Snowfeather"
	cargo "medicals" 120
	blocked `You need 120 cargo space available to carry the medicals supplies.`
	deadline 8
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Bring Hai: done"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`As you land, you receive a distress message, originating from one of the hospitals nearby. Staff are asking all who can to immediately bring back medical supplies from <stopovers>.`

Reviewer 5: This needs reworking. Ideally include the actual message, and "distress" is probably inappropriate, maybe urgent PSA.

> 			`	When landing on an Unfettered planet, even after you brought them a jump drive, there is always some lingering tension. Now you feel the tension much more than usual, probably because of the medical emergency. Unfettered are all around, launching small ships to bring the wounded to the hospitals as quickly as possible. The hospital itself looks different than the rest of the Unfettered structures, it seems more organized, proper. It is probably the best maintained structure, or at least has that appearance, because it is the most useful to them, alongside the shipyards. But one part of it looks to have been grafted onto the rest, and not by a well trained physician, to say the least... You figure they must really be needing more space for their sick.`

Reviewer 5: Is there a recent battle or accident? This is far too hectic to be business as usual, they'd have collapsed long before now if this is a common standard.

Author: There is an epidemic proceeding, and with their limited founds and resources they fully realize how dangerous that can be if they do not act quickly. We can assume this is something that happened in the past and did not go well, probably not on this world though.

Author: It was supposed to have happened whilst you were away doing the other mission, I never touched on the news and they just started to notice it pretty much at the time you arrive.
Would be weird to do an event to add news for a week to then just remove it?
This isn't covid situation or whatever not very harmfull diseases there could be out there, think more of a pest that kills quickly, spreads quickly, and then ends quickly, with half the people dead if you don't do a thing.
This isn't the first one considering they often get Hai joining them, Hai who saw a lot of different aliens when the UHai stay by themselves in general.

Reviewer 5: You get sent to the world - you can do news stuff if you like or you can just do a text only "news" mission where you hear about it on the news, or someone can just straight up tell you, but the point is _when you get sent_ to that world, you should explicitly be told why you're going there - you're bringing supplies _for an epidemic_.

Author: I included it in the distress message, and gave more depth to the mission, to make it fit UHai a bit more.

			`	Considering all of this, the Unfettered may not take no for an answer... Plenty of ships are already taking off to try and get those much needed medicals.`
			choice
				`	(Signal them I am going to get the supplies.)`
					accept
				`	(I do not have time for this.)`
			`	Thankfully it seems that everyone is too busy with the local problem to annoy you or press you into accepting this mission, but this will probably have consequences later. You better not stay landed for too long, or you could draw attention.`
	
	on visit
		dialog phrase "generic cargo on visit"
	on stopover

> 		dialog `You are surprised to see the Hai are more than happy to give you the medical supplies needed. They load up the cargo and once they are done one of they addresses you, "Tell our brothers and sisters to stay strong, hopefully it is not too late," he says with determination. Hopefully these supplies will help to make a difference.`

Reviewer 5: `Hopefully these supplies will help to make a difference.`
What is this line? Is this spoken, or is this something you think?
If spoken it needs to be spoken, otherwise it probably needs rework as it feels very out of place to describe the player thinking this.

Reviewer 5: Unless it's adjusted to be spoken by a character, yes.

	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	
	on complete
		log `Brought medial supplies to Darkcloak when it was in great need of them, to prevent an epidemic.`
		log "People" "Sha-Ri" `An Unfettered elder worried for his people, inside Hai or Unfettered territory. He seems to believe that all Hai are equal, and as a member of the council he probably has quite some influence.`
		payment 1500000
		conversation

> 			`The local health specialists seem greatly relieved when you manage to bring the medical supplies back in time. They give you <payment>.`

Reviewer 5: Probably a local admin, not the health specialists themselves, paying you.

mission "Unfettered: Attracted Attention"
	invisible
	landing
	source "Freedom"
	destination "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Prove your strength 2: active"
	on offer
		require "Jump Drive" 1
	on enter "Almaaz"
		dialog `The Unfettered comes to the bridge to warn you, "There are even more unfettered humans than anticipated. I told you not to come here with a jump drive!"`
	npc evade
		government "Pirate"
		system "Almaaz"
		personality disables plunders vindictive
		fleet "Large Northern Pirates"

mission "Unfettered: Jump Drive Retrieval"
	invisible
	landing
	source "Freedom"
	destination "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Prove Your Strength 2: active"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`Following the advice of the Hai, you park your ship close to the hidden depot in case something goes wrong, and then start following him to the hatch. He is moving at a quick pace, you have difficulties following him, even given the fact he is wearing a combat suit.`

Reviewer 5: This sentence is clunky.

			choice
				`	"Who made this vault, what should I expect?"`
				`	(No time for talking.)`
					goto outside

> 			`	"That is an information I cannot trust anyone with, not even you, and especially not here. I do not want the owner of this cache to be in danger whilst we need jump drives to expand. Assume it is owned by unfettered humans, or pirates as I think you call them, and that we are ready to face them," he tells you. He is fully armoured, meaning as long as you stay with him, everything should be fine.`

Reviewer 5: `He is fully armoured, `**meaning as long as you stay with him, everything should be fine.**
Another weird aside that is out of place.

Author: I tried to hint at the player they should not separate from the Hai but maybe he should say it explicitly instead.

Reviewer 5: Or simply let the player work out that staying with the heavily armoured Hai is a smart move.

			
			label outside

> 			`	Before exiting, he warns you, "Whatever happens, do not try anything stupid, and stay behind me at all times." He seems worried and keeps looking around, without making a sound. Well as little sound as possible, anyway, given he is in quite an impressive suit. It must have been crafted specifically for him in order to be so discrete. He does not have his helmet on, probably in order to see his surroundings better.`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
			`	Before exiting, he warns you, "Whatever happens, do not try anything stupid, and stay behind me at all times." He seems worried and keeps looking around furtively, making as little sound as possible with his suit. He is impressively stealthy though, and you surmise the suit must have been crafted specifically for him in order to be so discrete. He does not have his helmet on as he peers cautiously around corners and assess his surroundings.`
```
Was too clunky.

			choice
				`	"Is everything alright?"`
				`	"There is no need to be worried, that cache is well hidden."`
				`	(Keep walking, ready to reach for my gun.)`
					goto discrete

> 			`	You are not sure what kind of sign he just did, but it seems pretty clear he wants you to keep quiet. Looking around, you notice the two of you have attracted quite a bit of attention from the locals. While they all seem to have nothing to lose, the vast majority of them are very young and probably not the hardened criminals you had expected.`

Reviewer 5: There are locals? Where did they come from? Wasn't this a hidden depot?

Author: Yeah but for discretion you don't land on top of it (at least not until you are sure it is safe; to get the JD, as whoever makes the law on this pirate world is not aware of it).

This is on the way there; you go discretely first to check if it isn't a trap (which it is)

Reviewer 5: Yeah ok none of that was clear - it read like you'd landed somewhere off-grid and unobserved, explored stealthily around, and suddenly there's crowds of locals out of nowhere.
Needs to be much clearer what's going on from the start.

Author: It probably wasn't clear in my head when I wrote it, good catch
It is probable you were followed so landing off grid is pretty much saying "plz, come and take my ship"

			label discrete
			`	As you get closer to the cache, more and more you get the impression that it is no simple, small depot. You pass several security turrets and assume that even more defenses are hidden. Eventually you notice a door, apparently leading to the underground vault. Suddenly, the Hai stops.`
			choice
				`	(Stay behind him.)`
					goto stay
				`	(Go to the door.)`
			`	As you reach for the door the Hai shouts something, probably trying to warn you, but it is too late. You have already triggered the security systems, and get ripped to shreds by the turrets.`
				die
			
			label stay
			`	The Hai reaches for some kind of device in his pocket and enters what you assume to be the access codes. By the look on his face, it does not seem to be working very well, though... "Someone else has had access to the vault. This was not expected," he hisses as his grip tightens on his weapon and he dons his helmet. "Stay here, I will take care of it."`
			choice
				`	"I will not cower away whilst you do all the heavy lifting. I am coming with you."`
					goto fight
				`	(Do as he says.)`

> 			`	It may have felt like the right thing to do at the time, but you quickly realize splitting up and then staying here in the open was not very intelligent. It is too late unfortunately, because you get stabbed by a local pirate, who is no longer impressed by your now missing armored friend.`

Reviewer 5: This feels like it should be an "ask a question" scenario, not a "break everything" scenario.

Author: I wanted to convey the fact that this by no means a safe mission, but maybe I overdid it?
I could add some question options with these two staying the "let's get it done quickly" way?

Reviewer 5: As a general rule, if the player is going to have the choice to do something obviously stupid, they should be able to ask a question with an answer that may encourage it, and a question with an answer that should make it obvious it's stupid.

			`	After searching through the vault to find other surprises, the area is declared cleared. Any other stalkers have probably run off after seeing the firepower the Hai brought. You then run the necessary tests on the jump drives whilst he takes care of the security systems.`
			choice
				`	(Go back to the ship.)`
					goto ship
				`	"We could have just come into the vault swarming with ground forces instead of risking our lives..."`
				`	"Why did we have to go into the vault instead of just connecting it to the ship earlier?"`
					goto vault
			`	"As you have probably noticed, we did not have access to this vault for quite some time. Some unfettered humans could have snuck in and sabotaged the jump drives. To cripple your ship, or worse." As you head back to your ship, you notice more activity than on the way in. He keeps his rifle well in sight in order to dissuade any potential attackers.`
				goto ship
			
			label vault

> 			`	"The point of all of this was to be discrete; jump drives are worth a lot on the black market. Also we needed to make sure there was not any problems with them. Even monkeys could make them blow up when used. Besides, we want to keep using this vault for later, so we may as well ensure its safety."`

Author: Oh that is an interesting notion, but he has dealings with humans pirates a lot so it probably wouldn't be appropriate.
He could express himself a bit more like a pirate though given those are the only humans he sees; expect for the Alphas, very rarely.

	
	on visit
		dialog phrase "generic cargo on visit"
	on stopover
		dialog `You are surprised to see the Hai are more than happy to give you the medical supplies needed. They load up the cargo and once they are done one of they addresses you, "Tell our brothers and sisters to stay strong, hopefully it is not too late," he says with determination.`
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	
	on complete
		log `Brought medial supplies to Darkcloak when it was in great need of them, to prevent an epidemic.`
		log "People" "Sha-Ri" `An Unfettered Chief worried for his people, inside Hai or Unfettered territory. He seems to believe that all Hai are equal, and as a member of the council he probably has quite some influence.`
		payment 1500000
		conversation
			`The local health specialists seem greatly relieved when you manage to bring the medical supplies back in time. They signal you quickly to the local admninistrators who give you <payment>.`

> 			`	As you head to leave, you notice the same Hai Chief speaking with the medical teams. He soon sees you as well and moves to speak with you, seeming more than a bit emotional, "I knew I could count on you! With the swift response of captains like you, it seems like it has calmed down, maybe we worried too much. We did not before have the time to get properly introduced. I am Sha-Ri." He makes a little gesture, you assume of deference. You try to imitate the motion, apparently badly, amusing Sha-Ri. "Worry not, <first> <last>, I already know who you are."`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
			`	As you head to leave, you notice the same Hai Chief speaking with someone who could be the hospital's chief medical officer judging by their demeanour and attire. He soon sees you as well and moves to speak with you, seeming more than a bit emotional, "I knew you could be counted on as a friend to the Unfettered! With the swift response of captains like you, it seems like it has calmed down. Maybe we worried too much? We did not before have the time to get properly introduced. I am Sha-Ri." He makes a little gesture, you assume of deference. You try to imitate the motion, apparently badly, amusing Sha-Ri. "Worry not, <first> <last>, I already know who you are."`
```

			choice
				`	"I only did what little I could do to help save people. Hopefully I will be able to do more next time we meet."`
					accept
				`	"Why was the message only addressed to Hai?"`
				`	"Were these supplies for soldiers?"`
					goto soldiers

> 			`	He does not seem that much surprised, only disappointed, "I had no say in this, only idiots would refuse help when we are in such need. They will probably say aliens are the reason of this epidemic in the first place... this is not the kind of thinking that will make us strong again, I can tell you that much."`

Reviewer 5: This whole option is actually pretty nonsensical.

Author: You mean that they would not accept help from an alien? I mean they shoot you on sight, and from their perspective aliens are the ones who gave them the disease, I don't see how it doesn't make sense they would be even more distant with aliens; at least for some and for a bit of time.

				decline
			`	"We may be more... prudent when it comes to aliens, but the Hai in general are not. They can easily have seen many different species before joining us. The Hai who sympathise to our cause dedicate themselves to other causes as well, they help with the relocating of many."`
				decline
			label reason
			`	"Can't you tell?.. I make it a matter of life and death that the hospitals are always in the best of state. However it is not the same for all cities, for all of our worlds. We lack resources, and lodging, and probably many other things. What we do not lack is heart."`
				decline
			label soldiers
			`	"That is a very legitimate question, but I do not view any of the Hai as "soldiers" or otherwise separate. We are all Hai and all deserve to be saved; we do not designate supplies to help some before others. Most of the wounds came from battle, that is true, but the "soldiers" as you say need to be kept well just as everyone else, or else we do all suffer."`
			choice
				`	"Glad to have prevented a disaster then."`
					decline
				`	"So you just tricked me into helping the war effort?"`
				`	"Are all Unfettered not soldiers?"`
					goto soldier

> 			`He does not answer your question directly, "If you really must know, these supplies were used to treat an outbreak of a disease among soldiers, and thus prevent an outbreak that would have affected all of us. If the soldiers are not able to protect us, then civilians will suffer as well. The Hai would not dare to kill us, of course, but they would destroy our way of life, our spirits."`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
			`He does not answer your question directly, "If you really must know, these supplies were used to treat an outbreak of a disease that started among soldiers, but thus prevented a wider crisis that would have affected all of us. If the soldiers are not able to protect us, then civilians will suffer as well. The Hai would not dare to kill us, of course, but they would destroy our way of life, our spirits."`
```

mission "Unfettered: Attracted Attention"
	invisible
	landing
	source "Freedom"
	destination "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Prove your strength 2: active"
	on offer
		require "Jump Drive" 1
	on enter "Almaaz"
		dialog `The Unfettered comes to the bridge to warn you, "There are even more unfettered humans than anticipated. I told you not to come here with a jump drive!"`
	npc evade
		government "Pirate"
		system "Almaaz"
		personality disables plunders vindictive
		fleet "Large Northern Pirates"

mission "Unfettered: Jump Drive Retrieval"
	invisible
	landing
	source "Freedom"
	destination "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Prove Your Strength 2: active"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`Following the advice of the Hai, you park your ship close to the hidden depot, yet still close enough to the spaceport as to not draw unwanted attention by landing off grid. Your crew should be able to intervene should anything go wrong. Then you follow him to the hatch. He is moving at a quick pace, you have difficulties following him, even given the fact he is wearing what seems to be an heavy combat suit.`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
			`Following the advice of the Hai, you park your ship close to the hidden depot, yet still close enough to the spaceport as to not draw unwanted attention by landing off grid - utilising one of the lesser used auxiliary spaceports that are often used by captains seeking a degree of discretion. Your crew should be able to intervene should anything go wrong.`
			`	You then follow Si-Ra to the hatch. He is well-prepared and quite deft, even given that he is wearing what seems to be a heavy combat suit.`
```
You haven't left your ship yet.

			choice
				`	"Who made this vault, what should I expect?"`
				`	"Should we not take more men to ensure our safety?"`
					goto moremen
				`	(No time for talking.)`
					goto outsideship
			`	"That is an information I cannot trust anyone with, not even you, and especially not here. I do not want the owner of this cache to be in danger whilst we need jump drives to expand. Assume it is owned by unfettered humans, or pirates as I think you call them, and that we are ready to face them," he tells you.`

> 				goto outside

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
				goto outsideship
```

			label moremen
			`	"We are trying to be discrete here, not to draw attention! The more we are the more we will attract to attack us, we want them to think we have no value, not that we are rich fellows treasure hunting." Judging from his tone, this was a stupid question.`

> 			
> 			label outsideship
> 			`	Before exiting, he warns you, "Whatever happens, do not try anything stupid, and stay behind me at all times." He seems worried and keeps looking around furtively, making as little sound as possible with his suit. He is impressively stealthy though, and you surmise the suit must have been crafted specifically for him in order to be so discrete. He does not have his helmet on as he peers cautiously around corners and assess his surroundings.`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
			label outsideship
			`	Before exiting, he warns you, "Whatever happens, do not try anything stupid, and stay behind me at all times." 
			`	Once outside he moves at a quick enough pace that you have difficulties following him. He seems worried and keeps looking around furtively, making as little sound as possible with his suit. He is impressively stealthy though, and you surmise the suit must have been crafted specifically for him in order to be so discrete. He depresses a switch every so often which pops out a mirror, allowing him to peer cautiously around corners and obstacles in your path.`
```
He would need to keep his helmet on unless he was willing to be identified as Hai on a human world. Also now you're outside of the ship you can refer to his speed.

			choice
				`	"Is everything alright?"`
				`	"There is no need to be worried, that cache is well hidden."`
				`	(Keep walking, ready to reach for my gun.)`
					goto discrete

> 			`	You are not sure what kind of sign he just did, but it seems pretty clear he wants you to keep quiet. Looking around, you notice the two of you have attracted quite a bit of attention from the locals. While they all seem to have nothing to lose, the vast majority of them are very young and probably not the hardened criminals you had expected.`

Reviewer 5: What is your setting at this point? Have you arrived somewhere in a town? On the outskirts? A natural feature near an outlying village?
Where you are and what the setting it is important for anything in this paragraph to make sense.

Also the locals make precisely 0 sense leading into the next paragraph, so you need to either clarify the transition, or get rid of them entirely.

Author: I think we could go with saying that some of those the players assumes to be "locals" are in fact just part of the ones who took control of the vault, disguised as them. There are indeed no "locals" on sight when you approach the vault, they are hidden.
I would need to suggest that somehow though, saying that something is wrong; some seem too old for this?

Author: I clarified the setting, and added later a suspicious individual dressed as a local to trigger the senses of the player.
Its spaceport => small mountain => village => the mountain of destination

					goto vault
			`	"As you have probably noticed, we did not have access to this vault for quite some time. Some unfettered humans could have snuck in and sabotaged the jump drives. To cripple your ship, or worse." As you head back to your ship, you notice more activity than on the way in. He keeps his rifle well in sight in order to dissuade any potential attackers.`
				goto ship
			
			label vault
			`	"The point of all of this was to be discrete; jump drives are worth a lot on the black market. We also needed to make sure there was not any malfunctions with them. Even monkeys could rig them to blow when placed on a ship and used to jump. Besides, we want to keep using this vault for later, so we may as well ensure its safety."`
			choice
				`	(Go back to the ship.)`
					goto ship
				`	"If this world is so wild, why put the jump drives here in the first place?"`
			`	"The Unfettered are not the ones who placed those jump drives here..." He really does not seem to want to tell you much about this vault.`
			
			label ship
			`	You go back to your ship with the Hai, and give the orders to collect and install the jump drives.`

> 			`	A bit later the Hai comes to speak to you on the bridge. "It took us too long to install the jump drives, and we seem to have attracted attention. I guess that if some of the unfettered humans got away from the vault, they have contacted some friends..." As you look outside you see multiple ships getting ready to launch far away. You launch as soon as you can, rushing trough the correct procedures.`

Reviewer 5: Logically you'd be more likely to detect that other ships had launched on your scanners, not actually witness anything useful on this front with your eyeballs.

Author: I'll write something about alarm going off to notify you of enemy ships launching

		not "sold bars"
		random < 3
	on offer
		require "Gold Bars"
	npc disable
		government "Mercenaries"
		system
			distance 2 5
		fleet "Marauders" 3
		dialog `After disabling the last of the pirate ships, you wonder what could have motivated such an attack. Maybe you possess something valuable to them? When they entered the system they only sent one message: "nemo me impune lacessit". Whatever it is they were up against, it is probably best to store it on a planet (using U) or get rid of it.`

mission "Unfettered: Nemo Me Impune Lacessit 2"
	invisible
	repeat
	landing
	minor
	source
		near Sol 100
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Jump Drive Retrieval: done"
		not "sold bars"
		random < 1
	on offer
		require "Gold Bars"
	npc disable
		government "Mercenaries"
		system
			distance 2 5
		fleet "Marauders" 5
		dialog `After disabling the last of the pirate ships, you wonder what could have motivated such an attack. Maybe you possess something valuable to them? When they entered the system they only sent one message: "nemo me impune lacessit". Whatever it is they were up against, it is probably best to store it on a planet (using U) or get rid of it.`

> mission "Unfettered: I Shall Go Unpunished"

Reviewer 5: From here on there's a lot of this, all of these empty line gaps inside missions shouldn't be there.

Author: I used those to separate "sections" of the mission for clarity but I can remove them

	source
		attributes "unfettered"
	destination "Mirrorlake"
	clearance `You speak with the local authorities and they agree to meet with you.`
	to offer
		has "reputation: Hai" < 0
		has "Unfettered Jump Drive 3: offered"
	on offer
		conversation
			`Whilst wandering near the spaceport you find an Unfettered Chief who chastises you as a father would to a misbehaving child, "What have you done to anger our brethren?" You begin to answer, but he immediately interrupts you, "Never mind, it matters not. What matters is that you settle this petty dispute you have with the Elders right now! Or, in the future, cooperation with us will become difficult."`
			choice
				`	(Accept.)`
					goto agree
				`	"You have no place to tell me what to do."`
				`	"I can manage your weak brethren, bother me not with this again."`
					decline
			`	He looks at you gravely, "Your loss. Do not come here crying when the Hai are causing you difficulties."`
			choice
				`	"Wait, I have changed my mind!"`
				`	(Go.)`
					decline
			`	He makes a show of thinking it over before responding, "Well, I guess I can forgive your insolence, this time. But listen to what I am about to say."`
			label agree

> 			`	"Go to our home system and make your request, the Chiefs despise conflict, so they will most likely grant it. Given the circumstances, Hai-home will definitely not let you land though, so go to Mirrorlake instead."`

Author: You misunderstood; that's why I had stated the Hai's home system in the first place but MasterOfGrey wanted to do it this way.
We are talking about the main Hai system; not the Unfettered, and they of course despise conflict

> 			`	"Go to our home system and make your request, the Chiefs despise conflict, so they will most likely grant it. Given the circumstances, Hai-home will definitely not let you land though, so go to Mirrorlake instead."`

Reviewer: Hai leaders are "Elders" while UHai are "Chiefs" right? That may be the confusion here?

> 			`	"Go to our home system and make your request, the Chiefs despise conflict, so they will most likely grant it. Given the circumstances, Hai-home will definitely not let you land though, so go to Mirrorlake instead."`

Author: Right! I changed all Elders into Chiefs without thinking of this one mission, good catch

				`	"I can continue bringing food to the Unfettered for you, so they do not starve to death."`
			`	They seem willing to give you a second chance. "You have convinced us, but we will not grant you this pardon twice."`
				accept
			label death
			`	The leaders gasp, and then, in a moment that seems to last forever, there is silence whilst everyone is looking at you. The silence is shattered when the guards start shooting. They probably did not intend to kill you outright, but apparently they see you as enough of a threat that the result is the same.`
				die
		"reputation: Hai" >?= 1
		log `Convinced the Hai to stop their conflict with me, as request by an Unfettered Chief.`

mission "Unfettered: Bring Hai"
	name `Bring True Hai back`
	description `Bring <bunks> Hai from <stopovers> to <origin>.`
	source "Firelode"
	stopover "Snowfeather"
	passengers 10
	blocked "You will need room for 10 passengers in order to take the next Unfettered mission."
	to offer
		has "Unfettered Jump Drive 1: offered"
		or
			not "Unfettered: offered bring hai"
			random < 20
	on defer
		set "Unfettered: offered bring hai"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`Looking outside you see the sun is setting... It is a breathtaking view, revealing a big white structure in the distance. As you exit your ship you notice movement. You are partly carried by a crowd of Unfettered that seem to be heading to a big, yet simple, square-shape stadium nearby. That building is grandiose compared to its surroundings, by its sheer length and pure white appearance. In contrast, most buidlings around it appear to be bars or houses, but they are made from less pure materials, or maybe they just have not been cleaned in a long time. Something of great interest must be happening in there, though you notice some Unfettered are just going to the bars around, chatting.`

Reviewer 6: If the crowd of people is so large that the player is carried by them, then the player should notice more than movement when they exit their ship.
```suggestion
			`Looking outside you see the sun is setting... it is a breathtaking view that reveals a big white structure in the distance. As you exit your ship you notice movement. You are partly carried by a crowd of Unfettered that seem to be heading to a big, yet simple, square-shape stadium nearby. That building is grandiose compared to its surroundings, distinguished by its sheer length and pure white appearance. In contrast, most buidlings around it appear to be bars or houses, but they are made from less pure materials, or maybe they just have not been cleaned in a long time. Something of great interest must be happening in there, though you notice some Unfettered are just going to the bars around, chatting.`
```

			choice
				`	(Go to the stadium.)`
				`	(Ignore them and go back to my ship.)`
					defer

> 			`	As you head towards the temple, moving with the crowd, you can start to hear words being spoken loudly. A couple with 4 children is speaking, or more precisely, begging, "... and we fear the next season will be even more rough. We need foundings to restore the lands, nothing grows on them anymore!" The "Chiefs" speak together, and then grant her her request, before the next one in line comes. The sun is almost set, and you can see that the Chiefs are growing a bit impatient. "My cousins would like to join me, but they lack the founds to afford it. Would you allow more to join us, and become true?" This seems to bother them, they answer briefly, "We will contact True ship captains to ask them if they can, but I fear they are indeed busy these days, which is why the prices have gone up." Then they rise up, and one speaks to the crowd, "It is late, you would do well to go home to care for those near you. Never hesitate to come back to us in the next cycle should you need help." At this, the crowd leaves, as do the Chiefs later on. You notice one of them looking at you, pensive, as he just noticed your presence.`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
			`	As you head towards the temple, moving with the crowd, you can start to hear words being spoken loudly. A couple with 4 children is speaking, or more precisely, begging, "... and we fear the next season will be even more rough. We need foundings to restore the lands, nothing grows on them anymore!" The "Chiefs" speak together, and then grant her her request, before the next one in line comes. The sun is almost set, and you can see that the Chiefs are growing a bit impatient. "My cousins would like to join me, but they lack the funds to afford it. Would you allow more to join us, and become true?" This seems to bother them, and they answer briefly, "We will contact True ship captains to ask them if they can, but I fear they are indeed busy these days, which is why the prices have gone up." Then they rise up, and one speaks to the crowd, "It is late, you would do well to go home to care for those near you. Never hesitate to come back to us in the next cycle should you need help." At this, the crowd leaves, as do the Chiefs later on. You notice one of them looking at you, pensive, as he has just noticed your presence.`
```

> 			`	The same Chief is now moving in your general direction. He seems to be lost in his thought and is mumbling on, something about, "We do not get alien visitors often here. There has to be a reason for your presence..." When he speaks again, directly to you, it is with more focus, "Sorry, I was just thinking out loud! Well you are here anyway so maybe you could help us?"`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
			`	The same Chief is now moving towards you. He seems to be lost in his thought and is mumbling something about you. "We do not get alien visitors often here. There has to be a reason for your presence..." When he speaks again, directly to you, it is with more focus. "Sorry, I was just thinking out loud! Well, you are here anyway, so maybe you could help us?"`
```

			`	"We have friends outside of our space, civilians and others. You see, we would do anything to help a friend, and a few Hai want to join us. I can only hope you are willing to help us reunite with our brothers and sisters from Hai space," he says, apparently a bit desperate, considering he knows very little if anything at all about you.`
			choice
				`	"Of course, what do you need me to do?"`
					goto action

> 				`	"What do you mean, brother and sisters from Hai space? Are you not different?"`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
				`	"What do you mean, brothers and sisters from Hai space? Are you not different?"`
```

					goto brethren
				`	"Why do you need me to do it?"`
				`	"This seems like a bad idea, ask someone else."`
					decline
			
			label whyme

> 			`	"Well normally they would be able to pay to come here, but the price is pretty high; too high. The Hai make it difficult for us to go anywhere; as you have probably noticed they have a fleet at the edge of our system. And not many Hai captains are willing to bring them here, or at least they ask for a big fee, because of the obvious risks involved, like getting killed in all that cross fire. Yet you somehow made your way here, probably also under fire from our own people, but now that we are allied, you hopefully should not have any issues getting out of here. So, are you willing to help us?"`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
			`	"Well, normally they would be able to pay to come here, but the price is pretty high; too high. The Fettered Hai make it difficult for us to go anywhere; as you have probably noticed they have a fleet at the edge of our system. And not many Hai captains are willing to bring them here. If they do they ask for a big fee because of the obvious risks involved, like getting killed in all that cross fire. Yet you somehow made your way here, probably also under fire from our own people, but now that we are allied, you hopefully should not have any issues getting out of here. So, are you willing to help us?"`
```

			choice
				`	"Of course, what do you need me to do?"`
					goto action
				`	"This seems like a bad idea, ask someone else."`
					decline
			
			label brethren

> 			`	"Then you have heard about the stories of the Drak modifying our people..." He seems a bit sad. "I do not believe in such things, what makes a Hai -or any other species- “True” is in his heart. It will take him wherever he wants to go." He pauses a bit, thinking, and when he speaks again it is with deep conviction. "Even if we war with the Elders it does not mean we hate other Hais or them us! We do it only because we must, in order to keep living our way. We can still communicate with our people, and eventually they will all be freed from the limits of the Elders."`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
			`	"Then you have heard about the stories of the Drak modifying our people..." He seems a bit sad. "I do not believe in such things, what makes a Hai - or any other species - “true” is in his heart. It will take him wherever he wants to go." He pauses a bit, thinking, and when he speaks again it is with deep conviction. "Even if we war with the Elders it does not mean we hate other Hai, or they hate us! We do it only because we must, in order to keep living our way. We can still communicate with our people, and eventually they will all be freed from the limits of the Elders."`
```

			choice
				`	"Will this get me into any trouble with the Hai?"`
				`	"What limits?"`
					goto limits
				`	"Why do you need me to do it anyway?"`
					goto whyme

> 				`	"I believe they would not have their place here, I will not bring them."`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
				`	"I believe they would not have their place here. I will not bring them."`
```

					decline
			`	"Quite the contrary! They may not believe in our way of doing things, but they would never dare to restrict the movement of their own people. It would be against all they stand for. Even if we behave differently they know we are still Hai, and that we would never hurt Hai civilians." He seems confident.`
			choice
				`	"What is it exactly you want me to do?"`
					goto action
				`	"I am not interested in moving people around."`
					decline
			
			label limits
			`	"I mean that they are prevented from reaching their true potential. Once we had many stars and planets to call ours, but since then most of the Hai have decided to stop changing, to stay peaceful with all species, no matter how primitive. They have chosen to decay, to grow soft. The Unfettered are the ones who choose to keep our legacy, our way of life and then to evolve, to grow."`
			choice
				`	"What is it exactly you want me to do?"`
				`	"I am not interested in moving people around."`
					decline
			
			label action

> 			`	"Oh it is pretty simple actually, you only need to go to <stopovers>, pick up <bunks> Hai and bring them to this planet, they will find their way from there." You somehow doubt that affirmation, seeing how everything here is in a dilapidated state to say the least. You hope that at least the Hai actually know about that fact, or you may actually have to bring them back...`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
			`	"Oh, it is pretty simple actually, you only need to go to <stopovers>, pick up <bunks> Hai and bring them to this planet. They will find their way from there." You somehow doubt that affirmation, seeing how everything here is in a dilapidated state to say the least. You hope that at least the Hai actually know about that fact, or you may actually have to bring them back...`
```

			choice
				`	"I will get to it right away then."`
					accept
				`	"I do not want to bring you Hai defectors, sorry."`
					decline
	
	on stopover

> 		dialog `The Hai seem happy to get on your ship, now return to <origin> with them.`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
		dialog `The Hai seem happy to get on your ship. Now return to <origin> with them.`
```

	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on visit
		dialog phrase "generic passenger on visit"
	on complete
		clear "Unfettered: offered bring hai"
		log `Helped some Hai citizens to join the Unfettered.`
		payment 100000

> 		dialog `The Unfettered thank you for helping these "True" Hai find their way home, and give you <payment>. After discussing with them, the Unfettered Chief says, "If you want to help us again, the hospitals on Darkcloak are in grave need of resupply." Checking back on the group, you can see they are doing fine, and already finding a place to call home, shared among the others. They may not have much, but they seem not to require anything at all, other than to be here.`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
		dialog `The Unfettered thank you for helping these "True" Hai find their way home, and give you <payment>. After discussing with them, the Unfettered Chief says, "If you want to help us again, the hospitals on Darkcloak are in grave need of resupply." Checking back on the group, you can see they are doing fine, and already finding a place to call home. They may not have much, but they seem not to require anything at all, other than to be here.`
```

			choice
				`	"What kind of job is it?"`
					goto job
				`	"Good luck getting your ship without my help."`
					decline
			label insult
			`	He does not seem to react to the insult. He did call you monkey a few times before, so it is only fair for you to return the courtesy.`
			label job
			`	"We are going to collect a few jump drives! Normally you would not be able to get such a job because it requires a lot of trust, but I have gotten it for you, meaning officially this is my mission, and a very lucrative one at that! On top of that, should we succeed, next time you may be entrusted with such missions, on your own, albeit on a smaller scale."`
			choice
				`	"Okay... That just seems too good to be true. What is the catch?"`
				`	"If this is your mission you just do it yourself."`
					decline
			`	"Well... The name of the world is 'Freedom', and while it may sound nice, it is a unfettered human world and is thus dangerous. That is why I need your ship for transportation trough Hai space. You will also need to have cargo space available for 4 jump drives. You should be warned, this is not a mission for the light hearted."`
			choice
				`	"Let's go then!"`
					goto leave

> 				`	"Why can you not just use a jump drive and go there yourself?"`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
				`	"Why can't you just use a jump drive and go there yourself?"`
```

				launch
	on accept
		"outfit" "Jump Drive" 4
	npc evade
		government "Pirate"
		personality disables plunders vindictive
		system "Almaaz"
		fleet "Large Northern Pirates"
		fleet "Small Northern Pirates" 2

fleet "Marauders"
	government "Mercenaries"
	names "pirate"
	personality
		disables plunders harvests
	variant 2
		"Marauder Firebird (Engines)"
	variant 3
		"Marauder Firebird"
	variant 3
		"Marauder Arrow (Weapons)"
		"Marauder Bounder"
	variant 3
		"Marauder Falcon"
	variant 3
		"Marauder Raven (Weapons)"
	variant 1
		"Marauder Raven"
		"Marauder Quicksilver (Weapons)" 2
	variant 3
		"Marauder Splinter (Weapons)"
	variant 2
		"Marauder Manta" 2
	variant 1
		"Marauder Leviathan (Engines)"
	variant 1
		"Marauder Raven" 2
		

> mission "Unfettered: Stop of the Hunt"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
mission "Unfettered: End of the Hunt"
```

		Hyperdrive
		"LP144a Battery Pack"
		"Laser Rifle" 69
		"Security Station" 5
		"Small Bunk Room"
		"Liquid Helium Cooler"
		"Luxury Accommodations"
		"Proton Turret" 3
		Torpedo 102
		"Torpedo Launcher" 4
		"Torpedo Storage Rack" 6
	cargo
		outfits
			"Gold Bars" 15
			"Mystery Cube"

mission "Unfettered: Special Cargo"
	name `Mystery item`
	description `Go to <waypoints> and find a way to acquire the 'unique' item from the prominent warlord there. His ship is the Degenerate. Then bring the item to He Yi, on Warfeed.`
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Solifuge 9: Shield Beetles Mass Production: done"
		has "reputation: Hai" >= 0
	source "Darkcloak"
	waypoint "Alcyone"
	destination "Warfeed"
	on offer
		conversation
			`You are starting to get quite used to Unfettered spaceports, and strangely you are not even surprised by the amount of damage there is around on different non essentials structures anymore. At least the shipyards, hospitals and the stadium of the council are all in perfect shape, that is what matters most after all.`
			`	You want a change of scenery, so wander to a side of the spaceport you have not explored before, but it turns out not to be very different.`

> 			`	Your thoughts are interrupted by a local Unfettered, he seems to have a very important mission to give you, given how fast he is speaking. "He Yi has asked me to deliver you a message! It has come to his attention that an item of great importance to us is currently in the possession of an unfettered human warlord." You guess he is referring to a pirate leader. "Said warlord can be found in <waypoints>, we want you to go and retrieve that item right now, in whatever way you deem fit."`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
			`	Your thoughts are interrupted by a local Unfettered, who seems to have a very important message to give you, given how fast he is speaking. "He Yi has asked me to deliver you a message! It has come to his attention that an item of great importance to us is currently in the possession of an Unfettered human warlord." You guess that he means a pirate leader. "The warlord can be found in <waypoints>. We want you to go and retrieve that item right now, by any means at your discretion."`
```

				die
			label found
			choice
				`	(Take an alien looking modified torpedo warhead.)`
					goto stupid
				`	(Take an alien skull.)`
					goto wrongitem
				`	(Take a weird looking small cube.)`
			`	Surprisingly, you appear to have found what you were looking for: a small cube, completely regular and seemingly alien in design. Maybe the warlord was not aware of its value, considering she placed it here, without much protection, and without even trying to hide it. This has to be the item that He Yi wants, so you take it with you. Its small size makes it easy to conceal as you make your way off the ship and back to your own. This probably will not go unnoticed for long however, so you launch as soon as you can. The original pirate fleet is already heading your way, smelling something suspicious...`
				launch
			label stupid
			`	You try to disassemble the torpedo, but you do not have enough time to do so.`
				goto caught

			label bargain

> 			`	You ask around and find the first mate of the warlord, Mip. He seems intrigued by your request for a small and precious item that their boss has just acquired. "I think I know of which item you speak, indeed the old warlord was aware of it and orderer it delivered to him, something Kira knows not of yet... She does not need to. Indeed that item is very mysterious, which sells well on the black market. Also I do not know you, so you would have to give quite a large sum if you really want it, especially because you cannot just go and speak to my boss as if you knew her." He thinks a bit, looking at what kind of things you are wearing, estimating how much you would be willing to pay, he also looks on his pad, probably for records of your ship and fleet. "10 million credits," he says in a definitive tone.`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
			`	You ask around and find the first mate, Mip. He seems intrigued by your request for a small and precious item that their boss has just acquired. "Yeah, I think I know what you're talking about - matter o' fact, the old boss knew about it and ordered it delivered to him. Kira doesn't know about it yet - I guess she doesn't need to know. That item is a bit mysterious, which adds some value on the black market. Also, 'cause I don't know you, you'd have to pony up some serious moolah if you really want it, especially since you can't just go and talk to the boss about it." He thinks a bit, assessing your appearance and clothing to estimate how much you might be willing to pay. He also checks his pad, probably searching for records of your ship and fleet. "10 million credits," he says in a definitive tone.`
```

			choice
				`	"That low? Well here you go mate."`

> 				`	"I do not have that kind of money, perhaps we could negotiate?"`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
				`	"I don't have that kind of money. Maybe we could negotiate?"`
```

					goto negotiate

> 				`	"There is no way I am paying so much for an item I have not even seen! I challenge your warlord to a fight."`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
				`	"There's no way I'm paying so much for an item I haven't even seen! I challenge your warlord to a fight."`
```

Author: I tried not to use contractions actually, but maybe it feels better with them, at least in the parts people actually are speaking

					goto challenge
			`	He seems disappointed and wishing he had asked for more, but he shows you to the item, which is a little cube, and you bring it back to your ship without any trouble. He also signaled the local warships belonging to the warlord to land to let you leave without trouble.`
			action
				payment -10000000
			``
				goto leaveinpeace
			label negotiate
			`	"I can cut it down by... 2 million. Last chance, boy. 8 million credits, what do you say?"`
			choice
				`	"Deal!"`

> 				`	"There is no way I am paying so much for an item I have not even seen! I challenge your warlord to a fight."`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
				`	""There's no way I'm paying so much for an item I haven't even seen! I challenge your warlord to a fight.""`
```

					goto secondchance
				`	"I have changed my mind. The Unfettered will have to accept I am hostile to you."`
			label refuse
			action
				fail "Unfettered: Neutral With The Hai"

mission "Unfettered: Untrustable"
	to offer
		has "reputation: Hai" < 0
		has "Unfettered: Neutral With The Hai: done"
		not "Unfettered: Neutral With The Hai: failed"
	on offer
		dialog `Since you have not respected your word to be neutral to the Hai, you have received the agreed fine of 100 million credits. Should you refuse to pay it, the Unfettered will no longer consider you a friend.`
	on accept
		fine 100000000
	on decline
		"reputation: Hai (Unfettered)" <?= -1

mission "Unfettered: Bring Hai"
	name `Bring True Hai back`
	description `Bring <bunks> Hai from <stopovers> to <origin>.`
	source "Firelode"
	stopover "Snowfeather"
	passengers 10
	blocked "You will need room for 10 passengers in order to take the next Unfettered mission."
	to offer
		has "Unfettered Jump Drive 1: offered"
		has "reputation: Hai" >= 0
		or
			not "Unfettered: offered bring hai"
			random < 20
	on defer
		set "Unfettered: offered bring hai"

> 	substitutions

Author: Yes! They work perfectly well, and sometimes I cant imagine what I would do without them

			choice
				`	(Ignore her.)`
					goto continue
				`	(Go and speak with her.)`
			`	You can see she's clearly happy you came to speak to her. You ask her why she seems alone, and she answers, "I have no family here. I lost my parents to a pirate raid, and I came here to find myself, but I did not expect all of this. Did you change your mind about the translation?"`
			choice
				`	"Yes, please."`
					goto translate
				`	"No, but I did not mean to offend you, so I came to excuse myself."`
			`	"Thank you! No offense is taken. I knew humans were not like they often are depicted here..." she was going to say something else, but trails off as the proceedings in the stadium continue.`
				goto continue
			label translate
			action
				log "Minor People" "Merora" "A young adolescent that came to Unfettered space after she lost her parents to pirates. It seems that she handles that loss very well, at least on the surface."

> 			`	"Alright. I am Merora, by the way. I came to Unfettered space after I lost my parents to pirates, a few weeks ago. I have not yet integrated well, so I know what it like to feel isolated." You then present yourself to her, and right after that the proceedings resume. A child approaches the Chiefs, and he speaks very quietly, as if afraid. He appears lost. One of the Chief comes close to him and reassures him before speaking to his request. Merora then translates it to you, "The child wishes to return home, to Hai space. However he cannot do that alone, and the Chief is asking for someone to escort him and find him a suitable transport. All Hai captains, even those who do not sympathise with our cause, would easily accept taking a child back to Hai space, without asking anything in return. It only needs to be arranged by someone, and the child does not know who to turn to." Progressively, every single Hai stands up and says what you're pretty sure means "I do" in Hai. The Chief seems very moved by this, as a parent would be to see his child succeed in life. He then designates one, and the child goes to them.`

Author: I meant introduce yourself to her (give your name)

> 			`	The sun is almost set, and you can see that the Chiefs are growing a bit impatient. One Hai then arrives; he is probably the last one to pass today. Merora tells you, "He made a simple request, which bothers the Chiefs quite a bit, as he is not asking for a child to be transported, but for a full family, and not into Hai space but here, and there are not as many captains ready to do that. The Chief said that currently no one is available. They will most probably go and ask captains if it can be arranged, later." Then the Chiefs rise up, and one speaks to the crowd. Merora speaks, once again, "It is over, goodbye. I hope we meet again, <first>."`

Author: clarified it, it meant from Hai space into UHai space

			`	Many pilots seem to have taken up the call, but it appears the organizers here are still interested in all the volunteers they can get. Now that you're here, you're not sure you'll be able to leave without at least being accosted for your assistance with this.`
			choice
				`	(Signal them that I'm going to get the supplies.)`
					accept
				`	(I don't have time for this.)`
			`	You manage to leave without anyone stopping you in all the rush, though you're sure someone was trying to get your attention. If they remember you, the Unfettered will likely not be too happy. You probably also shouldn't stay landed here too long in case they decide to follow you.`
	on stopover
		dialog `You're surprised to see the Hai are more than happy to give you the medical supplies needed. They load up the cargo, and once they are done, one of them addresses you. "Tell our brothers and sisters to stay strong. Hopefully it is not too late," he says with determination.`
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on visit
		dialog phrase "generic missing stopover or cargo"
	on complete
		conversation

> 			`The staff seem greatly relieved when you return promptly with the medical supplies. A local administrator takes the time to track you down and give you <payment>.`

Author: I'll try to do that, but I'm not sure how to always, although I see what you mean

		"Hai Ravine Batteries"
		"Supercapacitor" 5
		"Hai Diamond Regenerator" 2
		`"Biroo" Atomic Thruster`
		`"Bondir" Atomic Steering`
		"Hyperdrive"
		"Pulse Rifle" 15
	cargo
		outfits
			"Gold Bars" 15	

mission "Unfettered: Prove Your Strength"
	name `Defeat the captain`
	description `A young Unfettered captain has provoked you in a duel. Disable his ship.`
	source "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered Jump Drive 2: offered"
		has "Unfettered: Bring Medical Supplies: done"
		has "armament deterrence" > 4
	on offer
		conversation
			`You start wandering in the spaceport, and notice that everything around you here is incredibly simple, efficient, and ordered. The Unfettered here are proudly showing their weapons, more so than on other planets, some of them are even armored. It seems they are ready for action at any time. You are happy to no longer be their enemy, at least for now.`
			`	Eventually you find a gathering, someone speaking to a small crowd of people. They all seem very familiar with each other, and as you watch, they have noticed you too. The one who was addressing the others saunters through the group and over to you. This could mean trouble.`

> 			`	"This is the monkey you speak so highly of? The one who fears not to come into our space, to fight our ships?" He asks the others, apparently mocking you.`

Author: He has lots of dealing with pirates and will be speaking like them
Also he's taunting you in your language on purpose, and the crew is his crew and speaks pirate as well

			choice
				`	"I fear nothing. Do you?"`
					goto provoke
				`	(Say nothing.)`
				`	(Run away.)`
					decline
			`	"See? The monkey dares not even speak! He would not stand a chance in combat! Even our modest ship would bring him straight out of the sky! But we should not even try, or we could hurt the little monkey! But my friends, there is no shame for him to have... with a ship looking like that one I too would be hesitant to fight!" He seems very full of himself. Perhaps someone should teach him a lesson.`
			choice
				`	"You dare insult my <ship>?"`
				`	"I have no need to prove myself to a rodent."`
					goto provoke
				`	(Go. He's not worth it.)`
					decline
			`	"Oh so that was your ship indeed! I was not sure, given your reputation, that you would fly in something like that. Your prowess is not exaggerated indeed then, for you managed to not crash on landing with such a thing," he says, and then he turns to address the crowd once again. "I wonder if he could take off again. Maybe he needs our assistance for that."`
				goto lesson
			label provoke
			`	"So the monkey can speak? Let us see if it can fight as well," he says with a provocative tone.`
			label lesson

> 			`	Time for him to learn a lesson. But then it occurs to you that perhaps you are the one who needs to learn humility.`

Author: Be carreful not to be overconfident like he is, or you may lose,I guess
If you lose then you get a lesson

> 			`	Time for him to learn a lesson. But then it occurs to you that perhaps you are the one who needs to learn humility.`

Reviewer 7: Gotcha. How about this then?

```suggestion
			`	Time for him to learn a lesson. The thought that you may be in over your head briefly crosses your mind, but you brush it aside.`
```

> 			`	Time for him to learn a lesson. But then it occurs to you that perhaps you are the one who needs to learn humility.`

Author: Perfect!

			`	After a cheering from his crowd, the arrogant Hai then speaks to you directly. "You and me, in battle, alone, a battle of flagships. Meet me in the skies, above the tallest trees, when you are ready. Except, of course, if you lack the courage to fight me. But rest assured, this is not to be a fight to the death, monkey."`
			choice
				`	"Let me show you my worth in battle. Right now."`
					goto accept
				`	(Crush his rodent face.)`
					goto crush
				`	"Can you tell me more about the rules of this fight?"`
					goto rules
				`	(Run away.)`
			`	As you move away you hear laughter, but nobody tries to stop you. You have just shown to the Unfettered how much of a coward you are, and will probably never be offered any missions from them anymore.`
				decline
			label rules

> 			`	"I guess you ought to know... You are supposed to bring only your flagship, but if it is too weak then more ships can be accepted, so long as it is a fair battle. It will last until either one of our ships is disabled, or one of us gives up. You can put it off for later at any given time for a symbolic bribe of 1000. Also, it is sometimes tolerated that the victor plunders the ashamed, but absolutely not that he tries to capture his ship. So, are you ready to fight?"`

Author: Its the start of the mission, it'd be hard to do that here, the bribe is really an actual bribe in space

> 			`	"I guess you ought to know... You are supposed to bring only your flagship, but if it is too weak then more ships can be accepted, so long as it is a fair battle. It will last until either one of our ships is disabled, or one of us gives up. You can put it off for later at any given time for a symbolic bribe of 1000. Also, it is sometimes tolerated that the victor plunders the ashamed, but absolutely not that he tries to capture his ship. So, are you ready to fight?"`

Reviewer 7: Cool. How about this?

```suggestion
			`	"I guess you ought to know... You are supposed to bring only your flagship, but if it is too weak then more ships can be accepted, so long as it is a fair battle. It will last until either one of our ships is disabled, or one of us gives up. You can put it off for later at any given time for a symbolic bribe of 1000 credits, offered in space before the battle begins. Also, it is sometimes tolerated that the victor plunders the ashamed, but absolutely not that he tries to capture his ship. So, are you ready to fight?"`
```

> 			`	"I guess you ought to know... You are supposed to bring only your flagship, but if it is too weak then more ships can be accepted, so long as it is a fair battle. It will last until either one of our ships is disabled, or one of us gives up. You can put it off for later at any given time for a symbolic bribe of 1000. Also, it is sometimes tolerated that the victor plunders the ashamed, but absolutely not that he tries to capture his ship. So, are you ready to fight?"`

Author: I like it, but I'm thinking more along the lines of before the battle "truly" begins or smth like that, considering he'll be rushing to come and shoot you instantly x)
Also its not just before the battle begins it can be in battle, technically, if it gets too though

			choice
				`	"Let's go then!"`
					goto leave
				`	"Why can't you just use a jump drive and go there yourself?"`
				`	"What will my cut be?"`
					goto cut
				`	"Sorry, but I won't risk my ship by going anywhere close to these pirates."`
					decline
			`	"Jump drives are a very prized possession among my people. I would not risk one by travelling trough hostile space. You had access to a jump drive, so you should know about the hostiles to the south. The aliens to the north would not be very happy to see me either... A jump drive would not be of any help to us." He seems disappointed by you having to ask such an obvious thing.`
			choice
				`	"Let's go then!"`
					goto leave
				`	"Sorry, but I won't risk my ship by going anywhere close to these pirates."`
					decline
			label cut
			`	"You humans always seem obsessed with money... It is a large sum. I will only take one quarter of it, and you know how much my people value jump drives."`
			label leave

> 			`	"One last thing: We should not go there by jump drive, especially considering where we are going. It would only attract unwanted attention to us. Besides, we should not travel through Wanderer space; I do not want to try their patience or tolerance to seeing me on your ship." You accompany him to your ship, and he admits to quite liking the interior of it, as well as general look of it. Your ship "is adequate for a warrior," he says.`

Author: At this point in the story they see all Hai as Unfettered, and I think they would be able to scan the ship and know what is on board. I assumed they had their sensors in some systems but its true that the captain wouldnt know about that

			label moremen
			`	"We are trying to be discreet here, not to draw attention! The larger our group is, the more attention and suspicion we attract. We want them to think we have no value, not that we're treasure hunting." Judging from his tone, this was a stupid question.`
			label outsideship
			`	Before exiting, he warns you, "Whatever happens, do not try anything stupid, and stay behind me at all times."`
			`	Once outside, you head for the mountains with him. He moves at a quick pace, and you have difficulties following him, especially with the terrain. He seems worried and keeps looking around furtively, making as little sound as possible with his suit. He is impressively stealthy all things considered, and you surmise the suit must have been crafted specifically for him in order to be so discreet. He presses a switch every so often which pops out a mirror, allowing him to peer cautiously around corners and obstacles in your path in case of an ambush.`
			`	You quickly arrive by a small local town that seems pretty recent. It's constructed with metal and other scraps the builders could gather, and is as deprecated as it gets.`
			choice
				`	"Is everything alright?"`

> 				`	"There is no need to be worried, that cache is well hidden."`

Author: right, you dont, but you could assume it is to reassure him so I'll change it to a question : `"There is no need to be worried, that cache must be well hidden, right?"`

			label lostbars
			action
				outfit "Gold Bars" -5
				set "unfettered: knows about bars"
			``
				defer
			label wait
			`You patiently wait for the intruder to arrive and hit them in the back with your pistol. Given it is a member of your crew that betrayed you, you decide not to involve anyone else, as they could be complicit. You first remove the weapon they are carrying. After doing a thorough search, you notice a distinct marking on the crew member's leg, which is only visible by a special ultraviolet light. This seems bad, very bad. Then you pause for a second to wonder if you really want to know about this.`
			choice
				`(Ignorance is bliss.)`
				`(I prefer not to stay in the dark. Wake them.)`
					goto light
			label bliss
			`You leave the traitor here on this world after awakening them, and they seems thankful, but deeply troubled by what happened. You wonder what you should do with the gold bars that seem to cause so much trouble. They should probably be stashed safely, or maybe you should get rid of them.`
			action
				set "unfettered: knows about bars"
			``
				defer
			label light

> 			`You throw a bucket of water on the crew member. He then wakes up, and at first refuses to tell you anything, but once you reveal you're aware of their marking, he agrees to reveal something to you. He seems to recognize the hopelessness of his situation, and maybe willing to bargain. "This sign means that I holds my life to someone, and have to do one task, any task, to repay them. There is something here, on this ship, of the highest importance to some... I may not, and will not say anything else, no matter what you try to make me do it. I am dead already, and they own me."`

Author: Idk if I can give a name this mission can happen multiple times

The option to help them will come later, right now you dont know enough (as in, next PR) but I should probably mention that

They dont want your help, it means your death and theirs as well in their eyes

> 			`You throw a bucket of water on the crew member. He then wakes up, and at first refuses to tell you anything, but once you reveal you're aware of their marking, he agrees to reveal something to you. He seems to recognize the hopelessness of his situation, and maybe willing to bargain. "This sign means that I holds my life to someone, and have to do one task, any task, to repay them. There is something here, on this ship, of the highest importance to some... I may not, and will not say anything else, no matter what you try to make me do it. I am dead already, and they own me."`

Reviewer 7: I'm not sure I like the idea of missions that feel unique like this one being able to happen multiple times without any variety. If it felt less "personal" then maybe I would be fine with it, but seeing this exact same text on multiple instances feels weird to me. Is there any way this could be reworked into just the first instance, then subsequent missions are just short blurbs about something similar happening? Maybe those blurbs change depending on our choices here?

> 			`You throw a bucket of water on the crew member. He then wakes up, and at first refuses to tell you anything, but once you reveal you're aware of their marking, he agrees to reveal something to you. He seems to recognize the hopelessness of his situation, and maybe willing to bargain. "This sign means that I holds my life to someone, and have to do one task, any task, to repay them. There is something here, on this ship, of the highest importance to some... I may not, and will not say anything else, no matter what you try to make me do it. I am dead already, and they own me."`

Author: Seems good, should probably be along the lines of the same crew members will try again, until it gets too hot for them

			choice
				`(This is it. I want to know all.)`
				`(Ignorance is bliss.)`
					goto bliss
			`He takes a deep breath. "An important organization wants these gold bars you have on board. They're not just normal gold. If you were to sell them to me, I could give you a good price, and you wouldn't be bothered by this again. 1 million per bar. You see, something is within these bars, something of the highest importance, and they want all of them. They will not stop until they have every single one. I may have told you too much for them to allow me to live already."`
			choice
				`(Sell the bars.)`
				`(Keep the bars, and drop that traitor on the planet.)`
					goto bliss
				`(Keep the crew member for further interrogating.)`
					goto escape
			`The soon to be gone traitor nods. "This is the right choice you are making, Captain <last>. You will never be bothered by any of this again, that I promise. I will take these 5 piles, and any more will be sold little by little as you go on any world. If you sell them to any normal outfitters, we will easily get our hands on it, so it is no problem to us, but you would only be payed the price of brute gold for it."`
			action

> 				outfit "Gold Bars" -5

Author: 4 bars is not worth converting 2 members of your crew, and you get the bars by 15 in boarding action, if you only have a few they'll just send mercenaries

I'll make the big mercenary mission only happen if you have more than 10 bars and those two missions more lilely the more bars you jave

				payment 5000000
				set "unfettered: sold bars"
				set "unfettered: knows about bars"
			``
				decline
			label escape

> 			`You tighten the traitor's hold, but as you do something hits the back of your head, and you lose consciousness. When you wake, there is a small word on the spot where some gold bars were, written by yet another member of  your crew. "<first>. I am very sorry to break your trust like they did, but believe me, this is for your own good. The ex-crew member would have been killed if they had returned without the gold bars, so we took a few. You should quit this while you still can."`

Author: right, it should probably be more along the lines of "do not pursue this further"

				goto lostbars

mission "Unfettered: Bar Selling"
	invisible
	landing
	repeat
	to offer
		has "unfettered: sold bars"
	on offer
		outfit "Gold Bars" -1

> 		payment 1000000

Author: This selling only happened if you agreed to sell the bars to the mercenaries, and I dont want to spam the player of dialogs

Ideally I would take all the ones they have in the previous mission but I cant

> 		payment 1000000

Reviewer 7: I understand not spamming the player, but I think the alternative (us just suddenly losing a bar and our wallet going up by one million credits) is going to be more confusing than it's worth. Maybe just a short dialog that says something like `An operative of the organization you're selling to offers you the usual <payment> for one of your gold bars. It doesn't seem like you have much choice in the matter, so you hand one over.`

> 		payment 1000000

Author: I wish I could do dialogs like that; but a dialog in an "on offer" of a mission will always be an "accept/decline" dialog

> 		payment 1000000

Author: Maybe I could make it instantly fail itself and  have it be the fail dialog? I never actually tried that.

> 		payment 1000000

Author: Just to be clear: I can do that but it needs to be a conversation, not a dialog.

> 		payment 1000000

Reviewer 7: Sure, a conversation will accomplish the same then.

> 		payment 1000000

Author: I'm still worried this will spam the player more than anything but we'll see.

			`	"Someone who brings us something as precious as a jump drive is not quickly forgotten! Now back to our business, if you don't mind."`
			label job
			`	"As you probably already know, the other Hai do not think like us. They believe in trading with all the galaxy in harmony forever, without seeing how it softens them. As such, they have wasted time designing a ship for the sole purpose of transporting goods in great quantities: the Geocoris. Or at least that is what we thought, at first. It now seems to us that the design is... interesting, so we want you to scan it."`
			`	"It is pretty much guaranteed there will be one such ship at all times around their home system, Ya-Hai, the center of their trade. For obvious reasons we cannot scan that ship ourselves, and we prefer that the Hai be ignorant of our interest in that design, anyway. Bring us the full scanner logs and you will be well rewarded."`
			choice
				`	"Seems easy. I'll do it."`
					goto agree
				`	"Why the sudden interest for that ship?"`
					goto design
				`	"You could just ask the Hai that come to you from their space about it."`
				`	"I don't want to get in trouble with the Hai."`
					decline

> 			`	"That is what we will be forced to do if you refuse, but we would prefer this to be kept a secret. Also most of the Hai who join us are not warriors, but rather artists, others who want to explore diverse ways of seeing the world, or even simply disagree with the ways of the Elders. So do you agree to do this for us?"`

Author: It should be moved to another place indeed

This elder will want to break the false ideas you probably have about the unfettered, because of propaganda and appearances

> 			`	"That is what we will be forced to do if you refuse, but we would prefer this to be kept a secret. Also most of the Hai who join us are not warriors, but rather artists, others who want to explore diverse ways of seeing the world, or even simply disagree with the ways of the Elders. So do you agree to do this for us?"`

Reviewer 7: Gotcha. Let's find another place where it fits better then.

			`	You ask around for Taer-Fi, the Unfettered engineer you met before. She said she would tell you more about it once she gets the Geocoris logs, but you have yet to see her since you brought those logs to the local authorities. Hopefully she can be trusted. After you spend an hour talking with the local Unfettered and drinking, she finally arrives. She seems to be in quite a hurry.`
			`	"Sorry I could not see you earlier; I was busy. I know I have promised you information, but there is a more pressing matter we should focus on. A human ship will enter <system> in a few days. I need you to scan it for me with the same scanner we gave you, and then I will meet you back here with the others and answer any questions you may have," she promises.`
			`	"Oh, and before I forget, you should not attack them, even if they strike first. I am not sure how they will even react to your presence," she adds.`
			choice
				`	"Okay, I better get going right now then."`
					accept
				`	"Why not just do it yourself?"`
				`	"Sorry, but this seems too risky for me."`
					decline

> 			`	"We don't know what their reaction could be. It would be preferable if you did it because they are more likely to think of you as separate from us. We value friendship a lot, and once trust is damaged it cannot easily be repaired." She still seems to be in a hurry, but you figure one more minute would not change much in your ability to catch that ship.`

Author: well those Alphas are their friends, she just explains that because of that they don't want to break their trust

			choice
				`	"Seems good to me. I'll do it."`
					accept
				`	"What kind of ship are we talking about?"`
				`	"Wait, you mean they could shoot me? No way, I'm out!"`
					decline

> 			`	She seems anxious to tell you. "I's a human ship, and quite a big one. We do not know its designation in human space, but it carries a few small ships and uses alien technologies. You do not need to be able to destroy it; just scan it and then come back here." She did not seem to want to answer the last question, and maybe only answered this one so you would go away. Now she is waiting for an answer. Maybe you should reassure her in your abilities before she starts doubting you and hiring someone else.`

Author: woops, must have changed it and forgotten about it

					goto price
			`	"Oh, you mean a ship like the one you scanned, with more fighters and weapons? We already have some scans of that one - exciting scans at that! But do tell me more about it." She seems to be drinking in your words, and is eager for more about those Carriers.`
			choice
					`	"Carriers dominate in human space. They have weapons to take down any ship, and with their fighters, they can even take on small fleets."`
					`	"Well, I've never seen them in combat personally, so you will have to ask someone else. I've only heard stories."`
						goto stories
			`	"Yes, my thoughts exactly! The fighters are too agile to be shot down by fixed weapons, but obviously any guns mounted on a turret should easily take down the small ships. Very good! I was worried that having a ship with fighters would mean it would only have a limited weaponry, but it seems even you humans have found a way to remedy that." She barely finishes her phrase before disappearing back to wherever she came from, even more excited than before.`
				decline
			label price

> 			`	"Yes, the price part needs to be addressed... But their strength is still something to be respected. The best advantage is that the fighters enjoy the ride and do not need independent hyperdrive systems." She seems a bit disappointed, but what you said does not seem to change any big plans for her.`

Author: you saying that carriers arent that good (they already have started developing theirs)

		has "combat rating" > 100
		has "reputation: Hai" >= 0
	on offer
		conversation
			`As you are preparing to leave this planet, an Unfettered Chief approaches you. After some time you finally recognize Sha-Ri, the one you helped earlier with moving people and medical supplies. You have not yet seen him so worried before, nor moving at such speed. "<first>! I, or more precisely a fleet of True Hai, need your immediate assistance escorting them through Hai space, from <stopovers>."`
			choice
				`	"What are you doing here?"`
				`	"Why do you need my help?"`
					goto help
				`	"I'm busy right now, sorry."`
					goto busy
			`	"I'm talking with all the warlords to make sure nobody tries something stupid, else innocent Hai may get hurt."`
				goto busy
			label help
			`	"It is not that I do not trust the Hai not to fire on their own people, but a misunderstanding happens quickly. Someone of your expertise would be helpful, and I cannot simply trust any Unfettered Hai captain with this, as he could easily be provoked into making a fatal mistake. I hope, though, that you will be able to make a rational decision."`
				goto choose
			label busy

> 			`	"Whatever it is you may be busy with, I'm sure it can wait. This fleet needs to arrive here before the end of the truce, in 3 weeks."`

Author: This was before the new Hai fleets, so them being sympathisers means they wont get shot at, I'll change that.
This whole mission probably needs to be redone a bit

			choice
				`	"I will go to Allhome and help them repel this attack then, once I am strong enough to repel a pirate fleet."`
					accept
				`	"I'm not interested in doing this."`
					decline

	to fail
		has "defeated scar's legion"
	on visit
		dialog `Go to the spaceport to talk to the local authorities on <stopovers> about the pirate problem.`
	to complete
		has "accepted scar's legion tribute"
		has "Pirate Troubles [4]: done"
	on complete
		log `Convinced the Hai government to supply Scar's Legion with their technology. They believe it is in exchange for an end to the pirate attacks but, in reality, their attacks will only intensify, as requested by the Unfettered.`
		"reputation: Scar's Legion" >?= 1
		payment 500000
		dialog `The Unfettered authorities thank you for deceiving the Hai and give you a payment of <payment>.`

> mission "Unfettered: Alphas: Find The Auxiliary"

Author: ~~the alphas want to get rid of you so they make the unfettered lure you into a trap, as they made you see alphas and they plan~~
They tell you they want the jump drives.

The unfettered try to get the best out of the situation, to make it win-win (same as before vs new supplier slightly weake r and the source of the JD)

> mission "Unfettered: Alphas: Find The Auxiliary"

Reviewer 7: That makes sense, but again, this is never explained to the player. Can we ask about it after we get back from this mission?

> mission "Unfettered: Alphas: Find The Auxiliary"

Author: at the end of the on offer of the mission, it is: ```	Before you go, one of the warlords comes to speak to you personally. "Do not dare come back to us asking for more cooperation, should you fail this. That said, I'm not sure you would ever come back if you are not victorious. But never forget that jump drives matter more than anything else. You should steal as many as you can if you do indeed manage to beat the Alphas."```

mission "Unfettered: Solifuge 5: Materials For Ships"
	name `Gather materials from asteroids`
	description `Mine 100 tons of silicon from the asteroid field in Wah Yoot and 15 tons of silver from the asteroid field in <waypoints> and then bring them back to <destination> for <payment>.`
	source "Darkcloak"
	waypoint "Ehma Ti"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Alphas 2: Prove Yourself: done"
	on offer
		conversation
			`You have never seen so much business in Unfettered space. It looks like a major undertaking is about to happen, and you will probably be a part of it. Taer-Fi is spreading a message for all Unfettered to hear. "The time has come, brothers and sisters! Now all that is needed is to spread the word, and our brethren from Hai space will join us in glorious victory! But let us not be reckless. In order to win we will need ships, and in order to build ships we will need materials. That is why we should all start gathering materials here."`
			choice
				`	"What kind of materials do you need?"`
				`	(Leave. I'm not interested.)`
					decline

> 			`	She notices you and responds to your question explicitly, speaking to all that are present, "Do not bother with lead, friends, it is useless for we are not a barbaric people. No, we need a lot of silver and silicon. Also do not forget we are selling asteroid scanners in the outfitter, should you require any."`

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
			`	She notices you and responds to your question explicitly, speaking to all that are present, "Do not bother with lead, friends. It is useless, for we are not a barbaric people. No, we need a lot of silver and silicon. Also do not forget we are selling asteroid scanners in the outfitter, should you require any."`
```

			choice
				`	(I know how and where to mine asteroids. Better get going.)`
					accept
				`	"How do I even collect minerals from asteroids?"`
					goto asteroidtuto
				`	"Where can I get those resources from?"`
					goto where
				`	(Leave. I don't have time to start looking for those.)`
					decline
			label asteroidtuto
			`	It looks like she is done speaking to the others, so now she comes to you and says, "Hello <first>. It's been a while since I last saw you. Heard you took care of that Auxiliary and brought back quite the treasure; great work! Now, back to your question: you've never mined asteroids? I recommend you install an asteroid scanner so your ship can target them automatically. Just try to keep your ship stable around one and shoot it as you would any other ships. Keep in mind they have no shields, and you might not want to waste missiles on them, since they don't shoot back."`
			choice
				`	"I have no more questions. See you soon."`
					accept
				`	"Where can I get those resources from?"`
					goto where2
				`	"Sorry, but I'm no miner."`
					decline
			label where

> 			`	It looks like she is done speaking to the others, now she comes to you and says, "Hi <first>, it has been a while since I last saw you. Heard you took care of that Auxiliary and brought back quite the treasure, great work! Now back about your question, it is quite simple, silicon can be found right over our heads and silver in Ehma Ti. The silicon asteroid look similar to copper but they are bigger, but you can also just differentiate them with an asteroid scanner. Silver is easy to recognize with it's very small size, and natural resistance."`

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
			`	It looks like she is done speaking to the others, now she comes to you and says, "Hi <first>, it has been a while since I last saw you. Heard you took care of that Auxiliary and brought back quite the treasure, great work! Now back about your question: it's quite simple: silicon can be found right over our heads, and silver in Ehma Ti. The silicon asteroid looks similar to copper but is bigger. You can also just differentiate them with an asteroid scanner. Silver is easy to recognize with its very small size and natural resistance."`
```

	outfits
		"Boulder Reactor"
		"Chameleon Anti-Missile"
		"Fuel Pod"
		"Hai Diamond Regenerator"
		"Hai Fissure Batteries"
		"Hai Tracker" 112
		"Hai Tracker Pod" 2
		"Pulse Turret" 5
		"Scram Drive"
		"Small Radar Jammer"
		"X3200 Ion Steering"
		"X3700 Ion Thruster"
	cargo
		outfits
			"Loot" 400
			"Gold Bars" 15

mission "Unfettered: Loot: Ion Cannon Materials"
	name `Loot cargo ship`
	description `There is an undefended cargo ship near <waypoints>. Find it and bring its cargo back!`
	source "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Solifuge 5: Materials For Ships: done"
		or
			not "Unfettered: offered loot"
			random < 30
	on defer
		set "Unfettered: offered loot"
	on offer
		conversation
			`When passing in front of a bar, you notice Si-Ra. He seems to be having quite a lot of fun. The bar itself does not seem that alien to you.`
			choice
				`	(Join him.)`
				`	(I don't have time for this now.)`
					defer
			`	The bar almost feels familiar. There are of course weird beverages, and the general architecture of it is simple to say the least, like all Unfettered buildings. But, in a way, it looks similar to pirate bars. Maybe some things are common between alien species...`

> 			`	As you enter, you notice he's speaking in your language, probably to make fun of humans. What he says does not seem to have much sense to it - he's probably had one too many drinks. When he sees you, he starts shouting. "This is my friend, Captain <last>, folks! He doesn't mess around - the holes in my old ship can attest to that!"`

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
			`	As you enter, you notice he's speaking in your language to the other Hai, probably to make fun of humans. What he says does not seem to have much sense to it - he's probably had one too many drinks. When he sees you, he starts shouting. "This is my friend, Captain <last>, folks! He doesn't mess around - the holes in my old ship can attest to that!"`
```

			choice
				`	"Old ship? You don't have it any more?"`
					goto ship
				`	"To be fair, you did ask for it."`

> 			`	"True... true... I even provoked ya, didn't I?" He's probably not angry about it, but he really seems agitated - so much so that he spills some of the purple liquid from his drink onto the floor.`

Reviewer 7: Agitated and angry seem too similar for you to be not angry but also agitated. Maybe there's a better word we could use here?

Author: Excited

mission "Unfettered: The Word Has Spread"
	invisible
	source "Firelode"

	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Solifuge 5: Materials For Ships: done"
		has "passenger space" >= 66

	on offer
		conversation
			`Even before exiting your ship, you notice that the recent activity has not diminished. People are still moving around everywhere, getting to their ships or simply doing their jobs with renewed purpose. In all that activity you find your Chief friend, Sha-Ri, who seems happy to see you. "Ah, here you are when you are most needed, like always, <first>! Many True Hai have felt the calling of battle now, or the need to change. So many, in fact, that the sympathisers to our cause cannot keep up. Indeed those who join generally do so without a ship or many funds; what they are looking for is a chance at a new life, but they need help getting here. Could you provide that help?"`
			choice
				`	"Sure!"`
					goto details
				`	"Why do they want to join you?"`
				`	"What battle are you talking about?"`
					goto battle
				`	"No way. I'm not helping in your crusade."`
					decline
			label why

> 			`	"It depends. Some want to utilize the resources of the new worlds that are ready for the taking. Others seek inspiration by seeing our warriors fight. Others still want to join us as civilians, now that they're convinced the living conditions will not be as bad in our territory, or as health specialists to mitigate the loss of life. They want change, and we offer that change. They may have all they could possibly need at home, but that doesn't mean they feel like they have a purpose - or that they are fulfilling it."`

Reviewer 7: There hasn't been enough mention of health or living conditions improving before this point for me to really believe this is the case. Maybe there should be missions where the player helps improve conditions by bringing materials specifically for improving infrastructure and such.

Author: You do bring medical supplies already
There are jobs for bringing materials but not an actual mission and the jobs were mostly though for shipyard materials, it would be nice to see them having to use those materials for habitations and such, earlier on, indeed

Author: I changed `Unfettered: Escort Hai Fleet` to say that you're bringing medicals teams and equipment to rebuild stuff, that's a start already

			choice
				`	"Let's gather the Hai then."`
					goto details
				`	"What battle are you talking about?"`
				`	"No way. I'm not helping in your crusade."`
					decline
			label battle
			`	"The only battle there is! The one you have helped us plan for so long: the reconquest of our lost glory and lost worlds, up north." The fire in his eyes proves he truly believes what he's telling you.`
			choice
				`	"Let's gather the Hai then."`
					goto details
				`	"Sure! I will join this battle."`
				`	"Why would they want to join you?"`
					goto why
				`	"No way. I'm not helping your crusade."`
					decline
			`	"I like your enthusiasm, but all things most come in good time. First, you need to bring these people to their new home."`
			label details

> 			`	You were readying to leave but he stops you, "Oh and before I forget, we have divided the contract in two for practical reasons, you may choose to first get the Hai South, or North. You could even do both at the same time, provided you have enough bunks for that. Be mindfull that some could be impatient, don't keep them waiting too long else they may take the services of another captain, or worse, change their minds about joining us! They should at least wait a month or two, but if for some reason, some of them do not return to us, you will only be payed part of the price."`

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
			`	"Oh and before I forget," he adds, "we have divided the contract in two for practical reasons: you may choose to first get the Southern Hai, or the Northern section You could even do both at the same time, provided you have enough bunks for that. Be mindful that some could be impatient. Don't keep them waiting too long, else they may take the services of another captain, or worse, change their minds about joining us! They should at least wait a month or two, but if for some reason some of them do not return to us, you will only be paid part of the price."`
```

	stopover "Cloudfire"
	stopover "Snowfeather"
	stopover "Mirrorlake"
	stopover "Mahoganybox"
	stopover "Makerplace"
	stopover "Darkmetal"
	stopover "Stonebreak"

	on stopover
		dialog `You have gathered all the Hai that had been assigned to you for the North part of Hai space, time to bring them to <destination>.`

	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Solifuge 5: Materials For Ships: done"

	on offer
		"unfettered: startdays north" = day + month * 30 + year * 365
	
	on visit
		dialog phrase "generic missing stopover or passengers"
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on complete
		conversation
			branch "reduced payment"
				"unfettered: missing northern hai" > 1
			action
				payment 3000000
			`The Hai from up North are all excited to join the Unfettered. You receive your payment of <payment>.`
				decline
			label "reduced payment"
			branch "very reduced payment"
				"unfettered: missing northern hai" > 2
			action
				payment 2000000
			``
				goto pay
			label "very reduced payment"
			branch "no payment"
				"unfettered: missing northern hai" > 3
			action
				payment 1000000
			label pay

> 			`The Hai from up North are all excited to join the Unfettered. You only receive <payment> as a payment because not all Hai as accounted for.`

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
			`The Hai from up North are all excited to join the Unfettered. You only receive <payment> as a payment because not all Hai are accounted for.`
```

					goto buyship
				`	"I've never seen such a big shipyard before. How can you manage it?"`
					goto questions
			`	"Oh, that it is! Well, I'll leave you to it then." He seems to be watching you, but eventually loses interest as you move far enough away.`
				goto finishscan
			label questions
			`	"It's quite simple, actually. The key is optimizing the distribution of ship parts relative to installation location..." He continues explaining their process, and you try to remember everything so you can add it to your scans as extra information. When he's done, he asks, "Would you like me to give you a tour? My break is soon anyway, so I could take it early for you." The thought crosses your mind that he could be stalling for time if he's onto you.`
			choice
				`	"Please! I'd like a tour of all of it, especially the big ships."`
				`	"No thanks. I came to retrieve a tribute, and I think I should get going now."`
					goto suspect
			`	He gives you a VIP tour of the whole shipyard facility, which is too good to be true. The tour ends at the local militia office, which has some questions about that scanner they find on you...`
				decline
			label buyship

> 			`	"Oh, is that so? Well, normally I can't sell ships, but I could make an exception for you... But you do understand I cannot sell you a warship." He may mean you'll have to pay more for said ship. Better prepare your bank account! You think he would probably suspect something if you backed out now. Noticing your hesitation, he adds, "There's no issue if you don't have the money right now. I can offer you a loan of the exact price of the ship, with a small... bonus."`

Reviewer 7: Why can he make an exception for us?

Author: He can't, this is an illegal transaction, he suspects you're not much into legal things and tries to abuse it a bit

Reviewer 7: But he does allow us to buy a ship. Why does he decide, "oh, I'll sell a ship to this person"? That doesn't seem to be well-explained.

Author: He sees you lurking around, and he noticed the scanning device, so he has you in the pocket, now he's going to get some money out of you or else you'll go to the authorities.

> 			choice

Reviewer 7: After we select a ship, add a final yes/no `choice` for whether the player wants to actually buy the ship.

			`	You manage to finish the scans without any more interruption, and are eager to get back to your ship to get all of this over with.`
				accept
			label toosuspect
			action
				fine 100000
			`	It looks like you have aroused too much suspicion. Maybe he was waiting to see if you would actually leave, or maybe he alerted the local authorities, but the result is the same: they arrest you and even fine you <fine>.`
			action
				clear "Unfettered: too suspect"
	on decline
		fail "Unfettered: Solifuge 6: Shipyard Upgrade"

mission "Unfettered: Solifuge 8: Useful Korath Scientists"
	landing
	name `Primitive Cooling Technology`
	description `Taer-Fi has asked you to bring coolants to her on <origin>, where she is working with the Korath you rescued to design a better cooling system. Bring back 300 tons of nitrogen human cooling.`
	source "Firelode"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Alphas 2: Prove Yourself: done"
	on offer
		conversation
			`As soon as you land, an Unfettered notifies you that Taer-Fi wishes to speak with you, and you should come with him to see her in her labs.`
			choice
				`	(Follow him.)`
				`	"I don't have time right now. I'll come back later."`
					defer

> 			`	The lab is like nothing you've seen before, certainly not on the surface. Here, things are not only efficient but aesthetically pleasing. It almost looks like a museum, with different kinds of alien technologies. You find Taer-Fi working around a Williwaw cooler, but she's not alone. The Korath prisoners you rescued are with her. It appears they have recovered from recent events, although you notice one is missing. They all look around, seeming excited, and like they can't focus on one thing at a time. Their main focus, however, is on the cooler and its surrounding technologies, so they have not noticed you yet.`

Reviewer 7: If we're going to explicitly notice one is missing, you should give more specific information about these Korath and how we would even notice one is missing. For instance, I had in mind we found like 20 Korath - how would we notice one is missing from those 20 unless we literally counted?

Author: There are not many Koraths btw, but I'll make that one have a singular injury

			choice
				`	"That can't be hard. I'll go look for human coolers then."`
					goto quantity
				`	"Can you be more specific?"`
				`	"I'm not interested in helping you any more."`
					decline
			`	"Not really. I don't know all kinds of cooling your species could have, but it most be large, considering your technology is not as heat efficient as ours. You're probably even using things like water, ha! Don't bring us something quite that primitive. We want the good stuff, like your nitrogen cooling, for instance. Do bring a lot of it, say, 300 tons."`
			choice
				`	"I'll go look for those then."`
					accept
				`	"I'm not interested in helping you any more."`
					decline
			label quantity
			`	"Be sure to bring back 300 tons worth of nitrogen coolers so we have a solid base to work on. Don't bring us things like simple, water-based systems."`
				accept

	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on visit

> 		dialog `You do not yet have 300 tons of nitrogen human coolers that Taer-Fi requested in your cargo hold or installed on your ships. Unselect your ship with "ctrl+click to load in the cargo hold".`

Reviewer 7: Check the existing tutorial `dialog`s to make sure the formatting lines up with those.

Author: There doesn't seem to be much to those in terms of formatting, but I changed this a bit to match

				goto heyi
			label lucky
			action
				outfit "Dual Pulse Pistols" 1
			`	You actually manage to reach cover, thanks to him stumbling a bit on the approach. He was probably anxious to beat you... Now that you are behind cover, you have a strategic advantage, and he misses his shots. It seems that the pistol quickly runs out of power, and using this opportunity you shoot back at him. Most of your shots miss, but because he cannot shoot back and you are well protected anyway, you can take the time to aim precisely. You manage to shoot his arm and he drops his pistol. He does not shout at all when getting shot, simply sits on the ground on that position, showing he surrenders. You get out of your cover and grab the other pistol. "You can keep them; you've earned it. This was a fair fight, Captain! I'd like to try again some time, and maybe get my pistols back..." He then goes away and sits on the side, probably thinking about what mistakes he made.`
				goto heyi
			label ready

> 			`	You try to shoot him, but h's too fast and you too inexperienced. You have made yourself an easy target for him by standing still; you fall as you receive a shot to your shoulder. It hurts, but nothing seems to be broken, and soon after you cannot feel anything in your arm at all. You opponent comes to you and helps you to get up. "Pain is a good teacher sometimes," he says. Then he goes back to fight with his friends, seemingly in teams.`

Reviewer 7: We agreed to tell him stories if he won, but then that doesn't happen here.

Author: Right, nice catch!

			label heyi
			`	It seems like your fight has attracted the attention of many of the Unfettered, including He Yi. He comes to speak to you. "That was a nice fight, especially considering this must be your first!"`
			choice
				`	"Can I help you with something?"`
					goto speak

> 				`	"Well, I lost."`

Reviewer 7: Seems like this could be set up with branches to make this choice available only for those who actually lost. Would that be difficult?

Author: Soon no, with the PR to hide given choices depending on the player's conditions
I really wish that PR would be merged sooner rather than later, in the meantime it wont take too much work to do what you say

Reviewer 7: Eh, I'd say there's literally no reason for someone to lie. What would they gain?

			`	You thank him for telling you this story and then think to yourself. This means there is a good chance the Pug have the non-lethal weapons you are looking for. Now you just have to find the Pug, but they'll probably not give you these weapons willingly...`

mission "Unfettered: Know Your Enemy"
	name `Acquire a translator`
	description `You should use your pseudo-independence from the Unfettered to scan Wanderer space. Also, you need to obtain a translator. First go meet the Wanderers, and then go to <stopovers> to see if He Yi managed to find one.`
	source "Firelode"
	stopover "Warfeed"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Solifuge 9: Shield Beetles Mass Production: done"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`Moving through the spaceport, you notice some buildings are not as dilapidated as before. You wonder if the Unfettered have found new interest in restoring their past, or if the new Hai arrivals brought this about. Whatever the case is, this does not look like a place of conflict anymore. It looks like a place of hope.`

Reviewer 7: Why would we wonder if the Unfettered are interested in restoring their past? I don't think there's been much context to lead us to believe this.

Author: I mean, you see the buildings restored, this seems like a reasonable supposition to happen without context?
I mostly meant "you wonder if the UHai put the funds into restoring this or the Hai did"

			`	An Unfettered herald approaches and notices you looking around. "Incredible, is it not? To see hope on the face of buildings and on the face of people. I am here to say that it's time you learn how to communicate with us - with the True language of the Hai. Not only with us. You also need to be able to make demands to the birds, and there is only one appropriate language for it. We have learned that they too speak Hai, even if they disgrace our language by doing so."`
			branch speakhai
				not "language: Wanderer"
			choice

> 				`	"I already speak Hai. I have a translator, but I did't show it to you yet because I didn't know how you would react."`

Reviewer 7: If the `<first>` is claiming they chose to hide the translator, that should be an option previously presented to the player.

Author: That could be complicated but you're right

Author: Actually he wouldnt know if you used it, as its currently written. So no need to say you've hidden it, they just haven't seen you use it yet because you didnt need it.

Author: I changed it. If you have the translator you won't get this mission.

			branch neutral
				has "reputation: Wanderer" >= 0
			choice
				`	"But I am at war with them already."`
			`	"We know. Here is a message in Hai that you will transmit to them. It says that you are our ambassador, so do not open fire on them for now. You need to make the Hai see this new alien race as an ambassador between our races. The Hai would not believe anything if it came from us. We don't want to drag our brethren into a conflict that is ours. We are the warriors, not them. But they still need to see how weak the birds are."`
			action
				"reputation: Wanderer" = 0
			label neutral
			`	"Scout all of their systems for us, and bring back any information you may gather."`
			choice
				`	"I guess I'll try to land on their planets."`
					accept
				`	"I am not interested in being able to communicate with them."`

> 			`	"Well if you want to work with us, you'll have to set that preferance aside. And don't forget: the translator is for communicating with us as well. Some among the most conversative of us despise speaking in your language. This will be a token of good faith on your part."`

Reviewer 7: Did you mean`conservative`? Either works here so I couldn't tell.

Author: I didnt even realize I had written that

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
			`	"Well if you want to work with us, you'll have to set that preference aside. And don't forget: the translator is for communicating with us as well. Some among the most conservative of us despise speaking in your language. This will be a token of good faith on your part."`
```
Here ya go!

	on complete
		log `The Unfettered asked me to be able to speak like a True Hai, because that is the language in which I should make demands to the Unfettered later.`
		log "Wanderer" `The Wanderers are a birdlike species that inhabits the old territories of the Unfettered Hai.`
		payment 1000000
		dialog `You land and find the herald you spoke to earlier. "We now know we can speak to you in the True language of the Hai, finally. And you can speak to us in Hai, through the translator. Most of us will be willing to continue communicating in your language, but expect to use the translator to speak and understand our Chiefs. They'll probably act like it's nothing, but trust me, they care. Here's <payment> for the intel."`

mission "Unfettered: Bring Detainer"
	landing
	name `Recover a detainer`
	description `He Yi has asked you to earn a translation device by bringing back a powerful alien weapon, said to be able to neutralize the engines of its target. You should probably look around Kor Sestor space.`
	source "Warfeed"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Know Your Enemy: active"
		has "First Contact: Wanderer: offered"
		not "language: Wanderer"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`You go find He Yi in his war room, who does not seem too surprised to see you. "I expected you to come here. You must want one of us to act as 'diplomat' with the aliens to the north."`

Reviewer 7: `You must want one of us to act as 'diplomat' with the aliens to the north.` This is wrong - the herald simply told us that's what's happening. We didn't want it.

Author: I added for completing the mission we asked of you, or smth like that

			choice
				`	"Sure, I will go and bring it back for you."`
					accept
				`	"I doubt I have the strength to face the Korath machines."`
			`	"If you cannot acquire the weapon, then you do not deserve this device. There should be other ways to get it than brute force, however. You could loot a ship while its allies are dustracted. Use whatever tools you have at your disposal. What do you say?"`
			choice
				`	"Sure, I will go and bring it back for you."`
					accept
				`	"This is way too risky. I'm out."`
			action
				fail "Unfettered: Know Your Enemy"
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on visit
		dialog `You do not yet have the weapon He Yi asked for. Investigate the battles of the Korath automata and you may see it in action.`
	on complete
		outfit "Korath Detainer" -1
		set "language: Wanderer"

> 		dialog `He Yi is impressed that you managed to bring this detainer to him, and happily exchanges it for a translator. He says you should still go to his herald to bring him news of this, and the scans for a reward.`

Reviewer 7: Will this `on complete` appear in the same planet visit/instance as the `on complete` on line 3540 (the previous mission)? It seems to me like you might have to take off and land for it to trigger. If it does happen in the same planet visit, will this `dialog` trigger before the other `dialog`?

Author: One is on Firelode, the other on Warfeed

	name `Strength Of A Leader`
	description `Prove your strength against Si-Ra and Hi-Ye in a battle, but do not kill them.`
	source "Darkcloak"
	substitutions
		<question> "How does your ship cloak?"
			not "Unfettered: Cloaking Interest: done"
		<question> "Why is your hull black?"
			has "Unfettered: Cloaking Interest: done"
	to offer
		has "event: Unfettered: shield beetle mass production"
		has "event: Unfettered: new cooling system"
		has "Unfettered: Special Cargo 2: done"
		has "main plot completed"
		has "language: Wanderer"
	on offer
		conversation
			branch "came alone"
				"ships: Transport" * 6 + "ships: Light Freighter" * 3 + "ships: Heavy Freighter" * 6 + "ships: Interceptor" * 2 + "ships: Light Warship" * 4 + "ships: Medium Warship" * 6 + "ships: Heavy Warship" * 12 <= 18
			`You find Si-Ra and Hi-Ye waiting for you on the spaceport. Si-Ra starts speaking to you, "You have brought too many ships, come back with only your flagship, or a few lighter ships."`
				defer
			label "came alone"
			`You find Si-Ra and Hi-Ye waiting for you on the spaceport. Si-Ra asks, "Are you ready for war, <last>?"`
			choice
				`	"Not yet. I will come back when I am."`

> 					goto later

Reviewer 7: Let's move the option to `defer` later in the dialogue once we actually know what's going on. The player will probably make the decision about whether they want to defer after they know what they're up against.

			`	"Be sure to come back soon. War cannot wait forever."`
				defer
	npc save disable
		to despawn
			has "unfettered: defeated Si-Ra"
		government "Hai (Unfettered Challenge)"
		ship "Enhanced Shield Beetle (Pulse)" "Intrepid II"
		personality disables staying heroic target launching
		conversation
			`"You have defeated me, But Hi-Ye will not be as easy to beat! Land to repair, and rhen take off when you're be ready to face him."`
			action
				set "unfettered: defeated Si-Ra"
	npc save disable
		to spawn
			has "unfettered: defeated Si-Ra"
		government "Hai (Unfettered Challenge)"
		ship "Shield Beetle Prototype (Black)" "Tejolis"
		personality disables staying heroic target launching
		conversation
			action
				"reputation: Hai (Unfettered)" += 100
				event "shield beetles accessible"
			`Now that the fight is over, they both hail you, and He-Yi speaks first. "You sure know how to fight! I feel now maybe we are the ones who need training. I feel like it is only fair you give us tips this time."`
			choice
				`	"You were overconfident, and that's what let you down."`
					goto mistake
				`	"A good fight, but you just had no chance against my superior firepower."`

> 				`	"You lacked coordination with each other."`

Reviewer 7: This seems like a weird thing to say because the mission is literally designed such that they _cannot_ coordinate.

Author: Oh right, it was 1v2 before I forgot to change thos

					goto mistake
				`	"Nothing specific. Well fought to both of you."`
					goto train
			`	He-Yi answer first. "It looks like that was indeed the case. Sheer strength may be enough to defeat nearly everything in your way, but is it fun? Is it strategic? I try not to rely on that tactic too often."`
			`	Sa-Ri then speaks. "Well captain, I sure wish I had the money for such a fleet. I could barely afford this ship, and it will need repairs again now."`
				goto train
			label mistake
			`	He-Yi answers first. "Yes, that is true. We'll try not to repeat that mistake again, Captain."`
			`	Sa-Ri then speaks. "Next time it will not be so easy, Captain!"`
			label train
			`	"The war will start soon, but there is still some time to train. Use that time well, Captain. We have also given you access to our mighty Shield Beetles, should you need it."`
	on fail
		dialog phrase "Essential Unfettered Mission Fail"
	on complete
		log `Officially joined the Unfettered Militia and received a license to purchase their heavy ships.`
		"salary: Unfettered" = 5000
		set "license: True Unfettered"
		event "joined the unfettered"
		clear "unfettered: defeated Si-Ra"

> 		#"reputation: Wanderer" <?= -1000

Reviewer 7: Why is this `#`ed out?

Author: For testing for this PR, I dont think I can justify it being commented once it gets merged

Reviewer 7: Yeah, just make sure it's removed before this is merged then.

Author: Added a comment to be sure.

		conversation
			`He Yi joins you on your ship after having parked his. "We will notify you once you may be of more help to the war effort. In the meantime, we have increased your salary to 5,000 credits so you can muster an even larger fleet. Also, from now on, you will officially have the permission - nay, the obligation - to proudly wear our colors. We have informed the Hai of your new colors so that they will recognize you and not be hostile to you. We cannot say the same for the Wanderers, though, so be careful."`

> 			`	He then draws his long sword, which has the same appearance as the keystone pendants popular among his race, and he hands it to you. "You have also deserved the right to have this. It is a proof of our trust toward you and means you will have access to all of our ships. Whenever a warlord is defeated in battle, he has to surrender his sword to the one who vanquished him. You must be burning with questions about my ship. I am prepared to answer a few."`

Reviewer 7: If `<first>` is `burning with questions` about the ship, let's first draw attention to the fact that it's different at all.

Author: You did just fight it in space, but  you're right that there could be a mention of it

			label wanderers
			`	"Those worlds are now held by a species of scavengers, who feast on the ruins of proud civilizations. Our scouts tell us that these carrion-feeders have wiped away nearly every Hai artifact, melting down our cities to make metal for their ships and factories, and hiding the scars of our wars beneath newly planted forests. They are an old and strong species, but few in number, and those worlds are ours by right."`
			`	You try to press them for more information, but they tell you nothing useful, aside from promising you that they will seek out your help when it is time to reclaim their territory.`
				accept
			label jobboard

> 			`	"If you want to sell more Jump Drive to us you can do so by going to the job board."`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
			`	"If you want to sell more Jump Drives to us you can do so by going to the job board."`
```

Author: I was going to fix it when the other one got merged into master but I dont mind fixing now
